The immediate past minority leader of the 9th Senate and the winner of the Senatorial election in Abia South, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe has expressed his profound gratitude to the people following his reelection despite what he described as “OBIDATTI wave in the South-East”. Recall the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last week declared Abaribe, winner of Saturday, February 25 Senatorial elections in Abia South. The Returning Officer for Abia South National Assembly elections, Prof. Georgina Ugwuanyi, announced this before party agents at the collation centre in Aba. She said that Mr Abaribe, who is the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate, got the highest number in the election having scored 49,903 votes. She further announced that LP’s Chinedu Onyeizu scored 43,903, while Governor Okezie Ikpeazu scored 28,422 votes and declared Mr Abaribe winner of the senatorial election. Reacting, Abaribe in a recent video clip described his victory as a narrow escape following the Peter Obi ‘Tsunami’ in the region. “It was a nice election and was going normally until we saw the OBIDATTI wave in the South-East and it almost consumed everybody and it showed me the love that our people have for me because I was able to survive that wave,” Senator Abaribe disclosed. TRIBUNE ONLINE understands the OBIDIENT Movement has since been making waves in the country with some analysts ascribing their feat to the growing popularity of Labour Party (LP) flag-bearer, Peter Obi among the young people craving for a better government. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be…  Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and… #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the… Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria… 24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to… A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 