By: Ifeoluwa Akinola The President-Elect, Bola Tinubu, has set up committees to meet his co-contestants who are aggrieved at the Presidential results to start what is referred to as the “healing process”. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and a member of the committees disclosed this in a statement released on Wednesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde. The statement explained that a Committee of Elders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) would soon reach out to the co-contestants of the President-elect in a bid to assuage their loss in the just-concluded poll. He stressed that every aggrieved person would be met for reconciliation. “The President-elect has set up committees to meet with the gentlemen who contested in the election for us to start the healing process. I belong to one of the committees. We are going to meet them and appeal to them so that we can work together,” the governor stated. Meanwhile, the major contenders of the 2023 presidential elections, like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Labour Party (LP) and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), have rejected the outcome of the poll, saying the electoral umpire failed to play by the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022 on electronic transmission of results. The oppositions have also threatened to head to court to challenge the poll’s outcome. Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the APC won with a margin of over 1.8 million votes ahead of Atiku Abubakar, who got 6,984,520 votes, and Labour Party (LP)’s Peter Obi, who polled 6,101,533 and NNPP’s Rabiu Kwankwaso who secured 1,496,687 votes. In his acceptance speech on Wednesday, the former Lagos State governor extended olive branches to his co-contestants, saying; “I take this opportunity to appeal to my fellow contestants to let us team up together. It is the only nation we have. It is one country and we must build together.”  “Whether you are Batified or Atikulated, Obidients, Kwankwasiyya, or have any other political affiliation, you voted and struggled for a better Nigeria, a more hopeful nation. I thank you for participating and dedicating to our democracy, Tinubu said.   