Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate in the just concluded February 25th, 2023 Presidential and National Assembly elections, Mr Peter Obi has charged candidates of the party contesting for Anambra State House of Assembly seats to support the State Governor, Chukwuma Soludo”s administration, when they attain victory come March 18th election in the state. Obi gave the charges in a closed-door meeting he held with the house of assembly candidates in Awka, on Friday night. Speaking with journalists after the closed-door meeting, Obi said he had charged the candidates to victory, while also hanging them to ensure they work with the state governor, Chukwuma Soludo irrespective of party differences for a better Anambra. Obi was reacting to a video where the Anambra State governor, Chukwuma Soludo, had said that he will not work with members of other political parties, who emerge in the House of Assembly. “We are not urging anyone to impeach any other person. We held a meeting with our assembly members, and we are calling on Nigerians to vote for Labour Party. “We are not asking anyone to go and impeach anyone. People should not be afraid of impeachment. We only seek to get things right in Nigeria. “Nigerians voted for me for hope and a better Nigeria society. And I promised, the hope will surely come. He called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to declare Hon. Afam Ogene of the Labour Party, winner of Ogbaru Federal Constituency without further delay. Obi was accompanied to the meeting by the National Chairman of LP, Barrister Julius Abure, the State Chairman, Chief Ogochukwu Eneh, elected Senators and House of Representatives members in the State; Senator Victor Umeh, Dr Tony Nwoye, Prof. Lilian Orogbu, Comrade Peter Aneakwe, Hon. Afam Ogene and others, use the meeting to condemn the killing of Enugu East LP Senatorial Candidate, Barrister Onyibo Chukwu and his aides, three days to the National Assembly election. Nigerian Tribune gathered that the House of Assembly contest is majorly between the State ruling All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Labour Party (LP), People Democratic Party (PDP) and the Young Progressive Party (YPP). READ ALSO FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   