The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said a story published in a Nigerian newspaper (not TRIBUNE) on Monday, March 13, 2023 edition, alleging that the Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele has launched a “fresh plot against President-elect” is fake news. A statement signed by the Acting Director Corporate Communications CBN, Isa Abdulmumin noted that the aforementioned story went further to allege that the Governor has made certain amount of money available to a political aspirant ahead of March 18, 2023, gubernatorial poll. “We wish to inform members of the public that this story is completely false and malicious as the Governor does not know and has never met or even spoke with Mr Gbadebo Rhodes Vivour either in person or through proxy. “We wish to reiterate that the CBN Governor does not take part in Politics and therefore urge anyone with contrary information to prove the Governor wrong should provide such facts,” the statement read in part. As such the CBN said its Governor and team at the apex banking sector regulator should be allowed to focus on their assigned job with a view to achieving the statutory mandates of the Bank. TRIBUNE ONLINE understands the CBN Governor has been silent since the judgment of Supreme Court on the Naira redesign policy, with many Nigerians counting their losses on daily basis following the cash crunch ravaging the country. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be… Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and…  #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the… Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria… 24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to… A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 