By Segun Adebayo  Popular fuji musician, Wasiu Ayinde, popularly known as K1 De Ultimate, has said that rejecting his wife’s kiss at a recent surprise birthday party organised for him was not a sign of trouble in her marriage to Emmanuella. K1 at his 66th surprise birthday party organized by his wife had reportedly refused to kiss Emmanuella who had approached him with a kiss. As the wife made an attempt to kiss her husband, K1 would not have any of it as he reportedly shoved her away, fuelling insinuation that all may not be well with the union. The Fuji king got married to Emmanuella on November 18, 2021 and described her as the last shot at marriage for him. In a statement made available to R during the week regarding rumours that his marriage is in crisis, K1 said there is no iota of truth in the claim. The statement read: “Our attention has been drawn yet again to another rounds of unofficial and unreliable piece of information that the Mayegun of Yorubaland, K1 de Ultimate, is not in love with his darling wife, hence the rejection of her kiss at his surprise birthday gig held at Radisson Blu over the weekend. “These rumour mongers have turned what ordinary was inconsequential to something they feel in their delusion, they should celebrate and spread for a gain we do not understand. “It is rather unfortunate that these rumour spinners who thrive only in negativity should be able to see through their hate that love indeed has found a place to stay permanently in the couple’s hearts. “It is so evident that K1 and his wife Emmanuella love each other dearly. This should be understood by many, especially those who are watching the couple. “Many of these gossips believe that the union will not work and are in perpetual agony when they see the marriage flourishing.  “We wish to say it clearly for the umpteenth time, that ‘Ajike Okin’ and her darling husband K1 de Ultimate have mastered the way to always keep their faces toward the sunshine so that the shadows can fall behind them. “They are still sailing on that love boat with no intention to halt the sail or sink it.”  READ ALSO FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 