The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday, released the breakdown of results for the national assembly elections held on Saturday, February 25, with Labour Party (LP) now third in the list of parties with the most seats in the house. The Commission said winners have been declared for 423 national assembly seats while supplementary elections will be held in 46 constituencies. According to INEC chairman, Yakubu Mahmood, 98 out of 109 senate seats have been declared while in the house of representatives, 325 out of 360 seats have been decided. In the Senate, the Labour Party (LP) has a total of 6 seats while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) now has 28 and the All Progressives Congress (APC) controls the majority with 57 seats. He said certificates of return will be presented to senators-elect on Tuesday at the national collation centre, Abuja, while members of the house of representatives-elect will receive theirs Wednesday. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be… Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and… #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party  The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the… Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria… 24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to… A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 