A police officer identified as Sergeant Gbenga Onakomaya has been found dead inside the residence of the immediate past Commissioner of Police in Ogun, CP Lanre Bankole. Nigerian Tribune learned that the lifeless body of the deceased was discovered last Saturday at the former CP’s residence at Kemta Housing Estate, Abeokuta. Bankole who was deployed to head the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) X-Squad in Lagos State, was reported to have been away when the unfortunate happened. The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, deployed Mr Bankole to head the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) X-Squad at its Anne The incident was confirmed by the State Command Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi when contacted. The PPRO said the police authority had ordered an autopsy to be carried out on the deceased officer, while his body had been deposited at the morgue. A source who does not want to be mentioned informed our correspondent that the deceased was confirmed dead at the Federal Medical Centre, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be… Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others  PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and… #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the… Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria… 24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to… A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 