By: Leon Usigbe – Abuja The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with former Nigerian leaders, Generals Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida and Abdulsalami Abubakar. The closed-door meeting with the duo took place on Wednesday in Minna, Niger State. Atiku’s media adviser, Paul Ibe, confirmed the meeting in a statement but gave no details. However, he said the session was “fruitful.” The former vice president is now in his home state, Adamawa, ahead of this Saturday’s governorship and state houses of assembly elections. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE You voted for a better Nigeria, Tinubu tells Nigerians “You voted for a better Nigeria,” an elated Bola Tinubu declared an hour after he was declared the President-Elect of Nigeria by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday morning… PSG star Kylian Mbappe drops hint on possible AC Milan move PSG and France superstar Kylian Mbappe told a fan after The Best FIFA Awards on Monday that he would join AC Milan if he moved to Serie A…  ANALYSIS: What the constitution says about a Presidential candidate having 25% vote in 24 States & FCT Amidst the keenly-contested 2023 presidential election, Nigerians have been asking questions following the constitutional requirement for a candidate to have a quota of 25 percent of the total votes cast in Two-thirds of all the States including the Federal Capital Territory, before being declared as president… Tinubu wins 3-horse race presidential election The 2023 presidential election of February 25 have now been officially concluded, with Bola Tinubu of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) emerging the winner having scored the highest total votes cast in the poll… Nigerians overpay for internet — Report SURFSHARK recently released the Global Internet Value Index (IVi), which uncovers countries that are overpaying for their internet connection plan… EDITORIAL: A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy body. And ravaging it beyond repair. In Muhammadu Buhari’s 2023 Nigeria, no one needs the cover of night to shed the blood of the innocent… 