Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers has mocked the flag-bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, and other leaders of the party following the latter’s loss in the just-concluded presidential poll. TRIBUNE ONLINE had reported the former Vice President on Monday, March 6, led a “black uniform” protest to INEC headquarters alongside PDP National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu; his running mate, Ifeanyi Okowa and other members of the party. Speaking at the commissioning of Igwuruta internal roads in the Ikwerre Local Government Area (LGA) of Rivers, Wike stated that he ensured his candidates won their election (at the State-level) while mocking the Atiku-led PDP for failing to replicate same at the Presidential. His words; “I won three of the Senate seats – three over three. Ask them, did they win three over three? You cannot win! “I told them; they said they would conspire against me. Those who said they’ll conspire against me are those wearing black. I am wearing white and they’re wearing black”. Recall the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Bola Tinubu as winner of the Saturday, February 25 presidential poll. The 70-year-old veteran politician got 37% of the vote, official results show. His main rival Atiku Abubakar polled 29%, and Labour’s Peter Obi 25%. Their parties had demanded a rerun, dismissing the poll as a sham following some irregularities that marred the election. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff  The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be… Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and… #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the… Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria… 24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to… A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 