An American university, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) has confirmed the governorship candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in Lagos, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, attended the school between 2005 and 2008. According to the US-based University, Mr Rhodes-Vivour obtained a Master’s Degree in Architecture after studying at the institution for four years. The Lagos LP flag-bearer, who is set to unseat the incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has been at the centre of a certificate forgery allegation after an email that purportedly emanated from the office of the Registrar of MIT appeared on social media claiming that the candidate did not attend the institution. The email quoted Nathaniel Hagee, a coordinator at MIT academic record office, that there was no record Mr Rhodes-Vivour graduated from the university. The mail was alleged to be a response to an enquiry made by a Nigerian on the educational status of Mr Rhodes-Vivour. But reacting on Thursday, MIT’s News Office, Sarah McDonnell, Deputy Director, Media Relations, confirmed that Mr Rhodes-Vivour indeed attended the school and earned a Master’s degree. “Thank you for reaching out. The MIT Registrar’s Office can confirm that Mr Rhodes-Vivour attended MIT from 2005 to 2008 and earned a Master of Architecture degree,” Ms McDonnell told Premium Times when contacted. Rhodes-Vivour is contesting against Governor Sanwo-Olu, and 13 other candidates. He is believed to be riding on the popularity of the OBIDIENT Movement that has since been making waves in Nigeria’s political space. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be…  Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and… #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the… Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria… 24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to… A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 