By Toluwani Olamitoke  Grade A Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State has adjourned for judgment on a divorce suit brought before it by a woman, Busayo Olayiwola against her husband, Segun Olayiwola, on the grounds of irresponsibility, immorality, abandonment and threat to life. Busayo entreated the court to grant her custody of their female children while the male ones are put in her husband’s care. She pleaded that her husband be made responsible for the upkeep of all their children, giving priority to their education and healthcare. The plaintiff further appealed to the court to restrain  the defendant from harassing, threatening and interfering with her private life. Segun pleaded not guilty to the charges brought against him. He also refused that the plaintiff had custody of their children. Busayo opening her case said, “I met my husband in 2004 and we dated for a few months. We started living together after we held an introduction ceremony, but my husband didn’t pay my bride price. “My husband, though a pastor, is worse than an infidel. “Segun shelved his responsibility towards me and our children and rarely gave us feeding allowance. “I left for work at 8:00 am and returned at 8:00 pm every day so that I could put food on the table, but my husband never showed any appreciation for this.  “Segun felt comfortable feeding from my hard labour and never gave his support. “I am the one paying our children’s school fees till date. I also buy their books and uniforms since my husband is indifferent to their education. “Segun was deeply involved in extra marital affairs throughout the time we lived together. “He had strings of lovers who were mostly teenagers of about 15 years old, and these he slept with on our bed almost all the time. “There were times he would send me out of our room when any of the girls was around and would order that I spend the night in our corridor. “Everyone in our neighbourhood knew about my husband’s escapades. I walk with my head bowed because he turned me into a laughing stock. “Segun abandoned me and our children for two years. He never asked after our children and showed no concern towards their welfare. “He returned home after two years and to my chagrin ordered that I pack my belongings and leave because he now has a new family — that is a new wife who bore him a child. “I moved out of his house, but he refused that I went with our children. “Segun now comes to my shop to harass and fight me. “He once assaulted me in my shop and now threatens to kill me. “My lord, I pray that the court put an end to our marriage and grant me custody of our female children because my husband is a randy and I fear he might start sleeping with them. “Segun can have custody of our male children, but I plead that he should be made responsible for the upkeep of all the children, giving priority to their education and welfare. “I further request that the court restrain him from coming to my home or shop to harass, threaten or fight me.” Segun in his response stated that, “My wife starting misbehaving after we had our second child. “She would leave home by 8:00 am and would not return until 9:30 pm. “She accused me of in extra-marital affairs, but she failed to tell the court that she constantly denied me sex after we had our last child which is the fourth. “My wife’s case is that of the kettle calling the pot black. “I once caught her with another man in her shop in 2021. Busayo was actually dating this man. She warned me never to come to her shop again after this. “I again met this same man in her shop around 8: 30 pm in 2022. They were both eating and enjoying each other’s company. “I challenged my wife’s lover and he was rude to me. “Full of rage, I pounced on him and beat him blue black. “Not yet satisfied, I descended on my wife with punches and didn’t let go until she was rescued from my hand. “I was arrested by the police and the following day, I was  served a court summon. “My lord, Busayo left home after this and later came back to pack her belongings when she was sure I was not around. “She went away with my property and also took along with her my documents. “Our four children are in my custody and they are doing fine.” The court president, Mrs S.M Akintayo, after she had heard both parties adjourned their case for judgment and ordered the couple to come with their children on the adjourned date.  READ ALSO FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 