There seems no end in sight to the wrangling trailing the 2023 Presidential election, as Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Labour Party (LP)’s Peter Obi have approached the Presidential Election Court (PEC), Abuja seeking an order to allow them inspect materials used for the February 25 poll. Their request is contained in two ex-parte motions they both filed at the PEC secretariat at the Court of Appeal, Abuja earlier this week. TRIBUNE ONLINE learned both motions have been listed for hearing today (Friday). Atiku’s motion was filed on Wednesday, March 1, while Obi’s filed his on Thursday.  Meanwhile, six states of the federation; Adamawa, Akwa-Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo and Sokoto have also dragged the federal government before the Supreme Court over the conduct, collation and announcement of the February 25, 2023, presidential and National Assembly elections. The States want the apex court to declare that the pronouncement of the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the winner of the presidential election and president-elect based on that election be voided by the court. There have been mixed reactions following the declaration of Bola Tinubu of the APC as the winner of the February 25 presidential poll. Some analysts believe the process that led to the Tinubu’s emergence as president-elect was marred by irregularities amidst other forms of electoral rigging. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  NPC releases salary, allowances for 2023 population, housing census ad hoc staff  The National Population Commission (NPC) has outlined the salary and allowances structure for its ad hoc staff who will be…  Presidential election: LP waves hit Lagos, Delta, Edo, Plateau others PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu; vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and…  #ElectionResult: ‘Okada Rider’ wins Kaduna Reps seat for Labour Party The Labour Party (LP) candidate, Mr Donatus Mathew, an okada rider, has been declared the winner of the…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  24 years of civil rule: When shall Nigeria overcome voter apathy? Real Madrid defender David Alaba has explained on social media why he did not give his first-place vote for The Best FIFA Men’s Player award to…  A season of gruesome killings, arson IN Oswald Mtshalli’s apartheid South Africa, nightfall came like a dreaded disease seeping through the pores of a healthy… 