The 30th edition of the Arabian Travel Market has been projected to host over 34,000 participants from more than 150 destinations as registration opens for tourism and hospitality professionals from around the world for the travel market taking place at the Dubai World Trade Centre (DWTC) from May 1 to 4. In line with its theme of ‘Working Towards Net Zero’, the 30th edition of ATM will offer a forum for industry leaders and policymakers from across the Middle East and beyond to explore challenges and opportunities related to the future of sustainable travel. Danielle Curtis, Exhibition Director ME, Arabian Travel Market, said: “We are excited to officially open registration for the 30th edition of ATM, which will shine a spotlight on sustainability within our sector and how regional decision-makers are driving decarbonisation while maximising profitability and enhancing customer experiences. “This year’s conference programme will feature a huge range of sessions that will explore innovation and best practice related to environmental, social and governance (ESG),” Curtis added. “We expect to welcome more than 34,000 public and private sector travel, tourism and hospitality experts from around the world to ATM 2023 – including over 1,500 exhibitors and representatives from over 150 destinations – making it the perfect platform for relationship-building and knowledge-sharing that will drive tangible, sustainable change.” The ATM 2023 conference programme is being specifically developed to address sustainability issues across the travel and tourism industry, with commentary from leadership figures representing a variety of sectors such as destinations, travel technology, aviation, cruise, investment, recruitment, hotels and hospitality. There will also be a number of sessions dedicated to key source markets, including India and Saudi Arabia. In addition, ATM will see the return of the ATM start-up competition where this year, seven innovative travel start-ups will pitch-battle on stage to expert judges and audience as they look to showcase their solution-impacting travel sustainability and recovery. Having officially initiated its journey to net zero, the conference programme will explore how innovative sustainable travel trends are likely to evolve, allowing delegates to identify growth strategies within key vertical sectors while providing a platform for regional experts to explore a sustainable future ahead of COP28, which will take place in November 2023 at Expo City Dubai. To mark its 30th annual event, ATM and its organiser, RX Global, will unveil a dedicated sustainability pledge comprising 30 goals that will inform the show’s journey towards decarbonisation. In conjunction with sustainability guidelines developed for exhibitors and delegates, this pledge will also help to ensure that this year’s edition of ATM is the most sustainable in history. The Best Stand Awards will also feature a sustainability category for the first time. Exhibiting organisations will be recognised based on the extent to which they have considered the environmental impact of their stands, as well as their efforts to reduce their carbon footprint.  ATM 2023 is held in conjunction with the Dubai World Trade Centre, and its strategic partners include Dubai’s Department of Economy and Tourism (DET) as the Destination Partner, Emirates as the Official Airline Partner, IHG Hotels & Resorts as the Official Hotel Partner and Al Rais Travel as the Official DMC Partner. The show forms an integral part of Arabian Travel Week, a 10-day-long festival of travel and tourism events. Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 