27-year-old Azeez Alamu is the first First Class graduate from the University of Ilorin’s Department of Political Science since it’s establishment in 1982. He graduated with a 4.58 CGPA. In this interview, he tells YUSUF ABDULKADIR his success story and how he feels to be the first to attain the feat.  HOW does it feel being the first student to graduate with a First Class in Political Science from the University of Ilorin 40  years after the establishment of the department? I feel very much grateful because I see it as grace from God. I don’t have two heads, I’m just a manifestation of His grace.  Do you agree that lecturers have been deliberately denying students the First Class position with strict marking? It’s a matter of belief. Even as a fresher, I never subjected myself to negative sentiments and orientations. Yes, so many senior colleagues said that to me but I strongly believe in myself. This is not to say that those before didn’t have faith in themselves, I just believe the fact that someone’s failure can’t hinder my success. When I gained admission, a lecturer once mentioned it as well that it was not possible, I never felt shattered by his statement. I took it as his opinion since it has never happened before.  Were you ever discouraged with what the lecturers said and the fact that no one had ever attain such feat? Yes, there was something of such even from the lecturers. They advised I shouldn’t overstress myself and that it’s not possible to graduate with a First Class. I said ok to them and keep doing my thing. I love reading at my most convenient time and I don’t miss classes for anything. I’m confident in my assimilation level hence I held confidence in the positivity of my examination outcome. My smart work couldn’t have earned it if God hadn’t predestined it, so, I saw myself winning this as a product of God’s grace.  What did you do differently to break this record?  We have different desires and determination in life. I actually don’t see it as a special win other than the fact that it’s a new occurrence in my department. I’ve always been an ‘A-grade’ student with God’s permission. I can’t say precisely what I did specially because I see myself as too busy than any other students. I held commitment with close to 10 associations on campus if not more than yet I was an active student throughout. What I can say is, I’m a very good listener, I don’t pay deaf ears to my lecturers analysis. I collide their views with my knowledge & understanding, hence I saw myself acing my courses.  When did you start leading your class? From the onset of my academic life, it has always been like that with the permission of Allah. I led my Class from basic school at Ansār-ud-deen Primary School to The Polytechnic, Ibadan, and here at the University of Ilorin throughout.  Would you say you were a genius or was it just hard work to have achieved such feat? I’m just a product of God’s grace. I studied smart, prayed, and was determined to achieve the feat and God granted it.  What birthed your interest in the course?