ON Monday, the death of a middle-aged man simply identified as Kehinde Fadayomi, who slumped and died during an alleged sex romp with a lover at a hotel in Ikere-Ekiti hit the air waves. Multiple sources in Ikere-Ekiti, headquarters of Ikere Local Government Area of Ekiti, revealed that the deceased, a native doctor popularly known as Ejiogbe in the community had lodged in the hotel with his lover, whose identity could not be immediately ascertained. It was alleged that the woman is a wife of a cleric in one of the fast-growing churches in the town. According to one of the sources,“the man died in the hotel room after having sex with the woman said to be spiritually laced with thunderbolt (magun). “The woman raised the alarm immediately the man collapsed which made the manager of the hotel and some other members of staff who were around to run to the scene. He was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital where he was confirmed dead.” The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Ekiti State, ASP Sunday Abutu confirmed the death of Kehinde, adding that investigations had commenced on the circumstances surrounding his death. Married women suspected to be promiscuous are usually laced with thunderbolt popularly known as magun in Yoruba parlance. This is aimed at exposing and disgracing both the woman and her lover and punishing them. Some parents, it is gathered, lace their female children with this charm to discourage them from indulging early in sexual activities.  It’s common to hear of a man who suddenly collapsed and died during sex in a hotel room. It is also common for such cases to be attributed to thunderbolt.  But in real life, sexual activity very rarely causes cardiac arrest. Sexual activity in human relationship is beneficial because it promotes sound health among other things. According to Dr Surajudeen Adefabi Ogunyemi, a Consultant Cardiologist at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals Complex, Ile Ife, Osun State, there are instances when sex-related stroke and cardiac arrest are often taken to be magun (literally meaning  ‘don’t climb’ in Yoruba language). Dr Ogunyemi said autopsy reports of some sex-related deaths indicate that the victims have enlarged hearts due to age-long uncontrolled high blood pressure. Also, in some cases, autopsy reports also find massive bleeding into the brain, which is medically termed stroke. The cardiologist explained that there is the possibility of sudden death occurring when an enlarged heart stops beating or a blood vessel bursts in the brain in someone with high blood pressure during sex due to the intensed activity.