I am a 14-year old lady and I am still bedwetting. Kindly let me know what to do about this. Iyabo (by SMS)  Bedwetting (Nocturnal enuresis) is defined as nighttime bedwetting beyond age 5, affects many school-age children and even some teens. It’s not a serious health problem, and children usually outgrow it. Still, bedwetting can be upsetting for children and parents. Around 20% of children have some problems with bedwetting at age 5, and up to 10% still do at age 7. By the late teens, the estimated rate of bedwetting is between 1% and 3% of children. Nocturnal enuresis is 2 to 3 times more common in boys than girls. Bedwetting at your age could be a sign of a urinary tract infection or other health problems, neurological issues (related to the brain), stress, or other issues. To curtail the problem, it is advisable for you to; limit intake of food or drinks with caffeine and avoid salty snacks and sugary drinks, especially during the evening, try and go to the bathroom regularly during the day (every two to three hours) and just before going to bed and wake up during the night to urinate, if necessary. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands…  What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion 