NIGERIAN Breweries Plc has launched a new phase of its N100 billion commercial paper programme, allowing the firm to raise N20 billion from investors. The exercise commenced on Wednesday, January 11 and will end today. The firm informed the Nigerian Exchange Limited and the investing public about the issuance in a disclosure titled, “Series 1, 2 and 3 of the Commercial Paper Programme,” signed by the Company’ Secretary, Uaboi Agbebaku, on Wednesday. It said it had a window to raise short-term funds via the issuance of series 1, 2 and 3 under its N100bn commercial paper programme which opened on 11th January 2023, adding that the series 1 would be for a tenor of 91 days, Series 2 would be for 120 days and Series 3 would be for 154 days. The company stated that its commercial paper programme continue to provide the opportunity for non-equity investors to invest, support its cost management initiatives and serve as an additional funding source. Commercial papers are debt instruments issued to investors by corporate organisations to raise funds for short-term needs. They are usually of a maximum of 270 days, about nine months. The issuance of commercial papers is a cheaper way to source funds, and their rates are lower than the rates offered by commercial banks. To purchase the NB commercial paper, an intending investor must have a minimum of N5 million, which is the lowest subscription. Nigerian Breweries is a leader in its sector in Nigeria, boasting over 21 distinct brands that are doing well in their subsectors. The company also has a good market spread in the beer, spirit, and non-alcoholic market segments.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi  THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 