The Pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), otherwise known as ‘petrol’ has continued to rise in Benin City, the Edo State capital as residents lament the economic effect on them. At some filling stations visited by our correspondent in Benin Metropolis, a litre of fuel was sold between N290 -N310, this was in spite of the long queue that characterised most of the stations. Other filling stations visited were under lock and key while fuel attendants waved signs of ‘no fuel’ to customers. A cross-section of residents who spoke to our correspondent at various filling stations visited called on the Federal Government to prevail on the hike in the price of the product which they described as ‘exorbitant’. The people claimed that they have to stay in a long queue for several hours before buying the product at a high price. It was also gathered that a litre of PMS was selling at N179 at NNPC mega Station along Sapele road. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Are Celebrating Freedom, Tinubu Says In Kwara, Vows To Fight Corruption Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Tuesday said that his administration will continue fight to eradicate corruption if elected into power in the forthcoming general elections… People Using Religion For Political Ends — Buhari  President Muhammadu Buhari has observed that some people hide under the canopy of religion to advance their economic and political agenda, and continuous education is needed so that the larger populace would not be hoodwinked… ‘INEC Won’t Surrender To Security Threats, To Conduct Mock Accreditation’ TO convince those who have expressed strong reservations about the functionality of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS), the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is planning to consider mock accreditation of voters ahead of general election… Edo Oil-Producing Community Decries Lack Of School, Health Facility, Others DESPITE being host to crude oil wells, Iguelaba community in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State lacks secondary school and functional healthcare facility, it was gathered…  