All Progressives Congress Presidential Candidate Bola Tinubu said River State Governor Nyesom Wike was right about what he said about the flagbearer of the People’s Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, about his integrity. Tinubu, while speaking at a campaign rally in Kano on Wednesday, accused the PDP Presidential Candidate Atiku of not having anything to offer after being part of the PDP administration that plundered Nigeria’s wealth as vice president. In his words, “Neither he(Atiku) nor his party can keep their promise. Tell me how will they keep their promise to the nation. No wonder, their party is in tatters! Governor Wike was right when he talked about a lack of integrity, saying “look at the man and his history.” He told Kano State people not to be deceived by allowing the PDP return to power under any guise as, according to him, it would be a return to maladministration in all areas. Tinubu said he has continued to refute the lies concerning his health by his continuous participation in the campaigns, the most rigorous of all the political parties. Tinubu said: “We can make Nigeria better, safer, and more prosperous. We can educate our youth, feed our people and put an end to fear. We can do these things. We can move you forward. “But the others cannot. They want to hold you back so that only they can move forward. They offer nothing but fake promises and easy answers that hold no water. All they can show you is how to hate your fellow Nigerian and reject your neighbour. “But they cannot show you how to protect our society, feed our people, provide jobs and care for those in true need of help. “Let me say this clearly and plainly. This campaign is about our collective march to a better Nigeria. Do we march forward? Or do we lose sight of the road? “We must march forward. But we cannot forget how they frittered away our Commonwealth. For 16 years they toyed with our lives and the future of this country. They spent $16 billion on electricity, but they procured darkness instead. They didn’t remember the pipelines and processing facilities to give us electricity. They shared the electricity generation money among themselves and their cronies.  “Their contribution to institutional-building is to create an electoral commission to rig elections, not to conduct transparent polls, and to establish EFCC to witch-hunt political opponents, not to fight corruption.” 