A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Friday vacated an interim forfeiture of 40 landed properties granted against the former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu. Justice Inyang Ekwo vacated the order following a discovery that the forfeiture order was fraudulently obtained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against the properties. The Judge, while lifting the order held that the anti-graft agency which obtained the order on behalf of the Federal Government concealed information that led to granting of the order by the court. Justice Ekwo specifically said that EFCC, which was fully aware that Ekweremadu was in custody in the United Kingdom failed to make the vital information available to the court. With his detention in London, the Judge agreed with Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), counsel to Ekweremadu that there was no way the former deputy Senate’s President would be opportune to defend his ownership of the disputed properties. Justice Ekwo had on November 4, 2022, issued the interim forfeiture order in favour of the Federal Government following an ex-parte application brought before him by EFCC. The Judge specifically directed that anybody who had interest in the forfeited properties should indicate within 14 days of the publication of the interim forfeiture order from the court. Recall that the former Deputy Senate President and his wife are currently standing trial in the United Kingdom over an alleged organ harvest. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Are Celebrating Freedom, Tinubu Says In Kwara, Vows To Fight Corruption  Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Tuesday said that his administration will continue fight to eradicate corruption if elected into power in the forthcoming general elections… People Using Religion For Political Ends — Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari has observed that some people hide under the canopy of religion to advance their economic and political agenda, and continuous education is needed so that the larger populace would not be hoodwinked… ‘INEC Won’t Surrender To Security Threats, To Conduct Mock Accreditation’ TO convince those who have expressed strong reservations about the functionality of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS), the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is planning to consider mock accreditation of voters ahead of general election… Edo Oil-Producing Community Decries Lack Of School, Health Facility, Others DESPITE being host to crude oil wells, Iguelaba community in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State lacks secondary school and functional healthcare facility, it was gathered…  Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 