The election year is finally here. It is the year most Nigerians have been looking forward to. The New Year comes with huge foreboding for many as did every past election years. Candidates who are running for one elective position or the other consider it the year their investments in the last four years or more will either go down the drain or bring forth yields. As campaign intensifies in the opening month of the year leading to February 25 when the first leg of the national elections will be held, the political class is expected to grow restless with consequences for the already heightened tension over fear of violence and other electoral malfeasances, the most serious of which is vote buying. But there are certain individuals whose critical roles in the elections will have direct impact on the outcome of the elections. The way these individuals discharge their responsibilities will determine whether the political temperature will go down or escalate and if Nigerians will have credible and fair elections they crave.  President Muhammadu Buhari All eyes are on President Muhammadu Buhari as the elections beckon. He has become the centre of focus for the international community over the role he will play, whether he will be neutral or not. Ordinarily, there should not be any ground to nurse fears about the elections in which opposition candidates are taking part. But the anxiety being expressed stems from the way many African leaders have deployed the powers granted them by their constitutions to muzzle opposition’s voices and shut them out undemocratically. Buhari ran three times for the exalted office and thrice he failed. In his fourth attempt, he was successful and the curtain is about to be drawn on his constitutionally-limited two terms of eight years. To be fair, Buhari has not left anyone in doubt as to his stance on the coming elections. He has stressed the need for the country’s electoral process to be sanitised and credibility restored to gain the confidence of the international community. He has publicly expressed his avowed commitment to bequeath a legacy of free, fair and credible elections. He said having been a victim of electoral malfeasance in the past, he must right the wrongs by genuinely empowering the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to clear the Augean Stable. He has thus far gave the commission the necessary support. He is confident he will follow his utterances with action and earn plaudits from Nigerians in this regard. While hosting a team of West African Elders Forum Pre-Election Mediation Mission led by a former Sierra Leonean President, Dr Ernest Koroma, Buhari reiterated his commitment to peaceful polls this year and seamless transfer of power to whoever Nigerians elect as their next president.  He vowed never to allow anyone, no matter how highly placed, to use money or thugs to scuttle the elections, while expressing confidence in the measures being put in place by INEC to ensure votes count. One major demonstration of his commitment to action his words was his brutal submission to Nigerians to vote whomever they want as their president, declaring their will be no interference from him or subversion of the will of the electorate. According to observers, for a president who party’s candidate is among the front runners in the race to so speak, there should be no doubt about him standing by the position to be neutral. Of course, the president readily makes reference to the few off-cycle governorship elections lately as evidence of his determination to guarantee that the will of the electorate will not be trampled upon. He went on to declare that the electorate in the country now know better and are thus wiser. “We shall not allow anyone to use money and thugs to intimidate the people. Nigerians know better now, they are wiser and know that it is better to dialogue than to carry weapons. Elections are even more difficult to rig now.” Findings by Sunday Tribune revealed that, while Buhari may be sincere about his determination on credible elections, people around him, some of his aides, may not be on the same page with him. Sources confided in Sunday Tribune that the rate at which the president’s name is being dropped by some of his aides and close allies in support some unwholesome practices beggars belief. Some observers spoke about how the presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) panned out to justify their claim that Buhari is not just in charge of his party, but also not in charge of the day-to-day running of the country or critical events shaping things under his administration.