Police have detained a six-year-old boy after shooting a teacher in Virginia, US States The police narrated that the shooting happened shortly after 14:00 local time (19:00 GMT) at Richneck Elementary School in Newport, as It is unclear how the child obtained the gun. The teacher who has not been named, but is in her 30s was taken to a local hospital and is closely monitored by doctors Though, left with life-threatening injuries. Police declined to name the weapon used in the incident but said the boy had used a handgun.
School District Head Dr George Parker said officials would “be looking at any instance that may have occurred that may have caused this incident.” However, Dr Parker said, “This is terrible, something like this should never occur, We want to ensure nothing like this happens again.” Adding that the school would be closed on Monday and pledged that students and parents would be offered support to help them deal with the traumatic event. Mayor Phillip Jones also said “We’re going to learn from this, and we’re going to come back stronger,” he told reporters. Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin said he had offered assistance to local officials, adding that his administration was “ready to help in any way we can.” “I am continuing to monitor the situation and am praying for the continued safety of all students and the community,” he wrote on Twitter. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer. N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday ex-pressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan…