The Inter Party Advisory Council, IPAC, Osun State Chapter has called on stakeholders in the electoral process not to heat the polity as the country prepares for another general election next month. In a statement signed by its Chairman in Osun, Mr Wale Adebayo calls on stakeholders to put the interest of the nation above personal interests. The council condemns attacks on opposition party members, and the destruction of campaign billboards and posters by non-state actors. He described acts such as the beating up of political opponents and the destruction of campaign materials as absurd acts. “We as brothers shouldn’t allow the election to cause rancour and disaffection in the state. I appeal to those who are fanning the embers of discord to desist so that together we can make Osun State a place of pride” “On our part at IPAC, we are putting together advocacy to enlighten our people to make the election a hitch-free exercise and we urge the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) to make the coming election credible, transparent, free and fair” Adebayo added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer. N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say  NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday expressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts THE Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has prohibited cash withdrawals from accounts belonging to the federal, state and local governments, as well as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)… Tears As Boundary Adjustment Reawakens Old Hostilities Between Gombe, Adamawa States The recent communal clash between the Waja and Lunguda communities of Gombe and Adamawa states has reawakened bad blood over boundary adjustment. The Northern Bureau Chief, MUHAMMAD SABIU… EDITORIAL: Legacy: Buhari’s Plea To Nigerians In his Christmas message last month, President Muhammadu Buhari pleaded with Nigerians of voting age to be wary of candidates who could not move Nigeria forward. Noting that the joyous season of the birth of Jesus Christ coincided with the period of campaigns that would usher in a new administration in the country…  