ON Saturday December 31, 2022, just before 12 midnight struck to usher in 2023, 57-year- old Madam Kemi Okeseeyin danced inside Saint John’s Anglican Church, Akinmoorin in Oyo State, thanking her Maker for the opportunity of being alive. Little did she know that she would just have a bite of the new year for a few minutes. As the clock struck at midnight, she joined others in shouting “happy new year,” but less than two hours after, the happiness turned to sadness for her family, friends, sons and daughters of the town. A 26-year-old, identified as Tayo, was alleged to have run over innocent people at the town Square and crushed some of them to death with his Toyota Camry (Muscle) car with registration number EKY 714 HP, while others were critically injured. Though Tayo initially escaped, it was learnt that he called one of the indigenes to tell him where he was. He was reportedly picked up and taken to Jobele police station in a tinted car so that the irate mob would not descend on him. From there, he was taken to a safer security zone distant from Jobele. Before then, his younger brother, Moses, two of his friends and an Akinmoorin dweller who aided his escape had been apprehended by the people of the town and handed over to the police. One of the eyewitnesses said that before running over the victims, the suspect allegedly threatened: “I will kill people (maa pa’yan), I will shed blood (maa gb’eje, I will drink blood (maa m’eje).” On Wednesday, January 4, Saturday Tribune was in the town which has links with Jobele, where the murder suspect comes from. Other adjoining towns are Awe, Ilora, Fiditi, Imini and Iware. It could be seen that the Akinmoorin indigenes were in a sad mood. It has been difficult for them to take it that their friends and relatives who they were rejoicing with in the new year met their untimely death in their domain less than two hours into it. The burnt remains of the suspect’s car which crushed the victims were seen at the scene. At the palace of the traditional ruler, the Amoorin of Akin- moorin, Oba Olayemi Iyiola Solomon, told Saturday Tribune how it happened. “On December 31, 2022, my people went to church in preparation for praising God for crossing into a new year. I was on bed at home. At about 2pm, I heard a loud wailing and asked a security guard with me about what was happening. He told me that the vehicle of a Yahoo guy from Jobele deliberately ran over my people and crushed them to death after threatening that he wanted to drink blood.  “It was a time Christians came out from churches and to celebrate the new year together. I learnt that he was just speeding around the town and he was cautioned. I didn’t know what happened between yahoo guys before the killer said he wanted to drink blood. He is a grandson to late traditional leader (Baale) of Jobele. I learnt that after threatening, he got into his car, drove to a filling station at a short distance and made a turn. “As he was approaching where people gathered, some discuss- ing among themselves and others enjoying in the celebratory mood, he was said to have switched off his headlights, crossed a narrow and not-so-deep drainage by the roadside and ran into the gathered crowd. If some of them had not been lucky to escape, the casualty would have been more. “In the morning, I went with chiefs and youths to the scene. It was horrible and heart-rending.”
Past incidents According to the king: “A drunk Yahoo boy in Jobele once destroyed the chief hunter’s statue erected at the town centre as an honour in memory of the hunter who emigrated from Gbagura to found/establish Akinmoorin. The erected circle around it was not spared. Till today, we are yet to erect another one. “An elderly woman in Akinmoorin was also crushed to death by a Jobele man. This is the third time, and my people were killed. As I’m talking to you, we have buried those who died. The victims were from Oyo town and other places. Jobele has not come to us since the occurrence but other surrounding towns and communities have come to commiserate with us. I don’t want such a thing to happen here again.”