Delta State government has advised intending pilgrims to Israel and Jordan to be good ambassadors of the state and the country. The state Commissioner, Bureau for Special Duties, Mr Johnbull Edema, gave the advice while briefing the pilgrims in Asaba, the state capital, on Friday ahead of their journey. He noted that the journey was not a jamboree but a spiritual exercise that would allow pilgrims to pray for the state, government and the country at large, particularly as the general elections approaches. ”We advise pilgrims to use the opportunity of their holy trip to pray for Nigeria ahead of the forthcoming general elections,” he said. The commissioner said that the first batch would depart the state on January 16, while the second batch would depart on January 26. ”The state government is spending so much to ensure that intending pilgrims have a hitch-free pilgrimage to Israel and Jordan. I urge the beneficiaries to reciprocate the gesture by living up to expectations,” he said. Chairman of the State Christian Pilgrim Welfare Board, Archbishop Cyril Odutemu, said the board does not issue visas to intending pilgrims but the prerogative of the embassies of Israel and Jordan. Odutemu said it was at the discretion of the host countries to either approve or deny any intending pilgrim visa and advised them to ensure they comply with all COVID-19 protocols.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi  THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 