The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has suspended the chairman of its Ebonyi State chapter, Okorie Tochukwu Okoroafor. The decision to suspend came at NWC’s emergency meeting held on Friday. According to a statement issued on Friday by Hon. Debo Ologunagba, National Publicity Secretary, which announced the measure, the NWC extensively reviewed the conduct and activities of the suspended party boss. The statement explained that the action was taken pursuant to Sections 29 (2) (b) and 57(3) of the Constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017). It added that the “NWC has on behalf of the National Executive Committee (NEC) approved the suspension of Okorie Tochukwu Okoroafor with effect from today, Friday, January 27, 2023, over allegations of anti-party activities and violation of provisions of Section 58 (1) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017). “Consequently, Okorie Tochukwu Okoroafor has been referred to the Party’s appropriate Disciplinary Committee for further action.” The party has also announced the expansion of Ekiti State PDP Caretaker Committee recently set up. It said pursuant to Sections 29(2)(b) and 31(2)(e) of our the Constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017), NEC approved the expansion of Caretaker Committee. The statement gave the expanded committee as Arch. Sadiq Obanoyen (Chairman); members are Hon. Ojoade Fajana, Chief Mrs Adijat Eniola Balogun, Hon. Oladimeji Joshua Ayodele, Chief Boboye Adekunle, Hajia Lawal Idayat Tosin, Comrade Waliu Olawole Oladipupo and Erelu Toyin Olumilua Mark. Other members are Dr Alade  Beatrice Modupe, Aare Temitope Amerijoye, Akogun Bunmi Ogunleye, Olugbenga Adewole, Hon Ajibola Samuel, and Barr. Dosu Babatunde was named as Member/Secretary  The NWC urged all leaders, critical stakeholders and teeming members of the party in Ekiti State to continue to work together and remain focused on the task ahead. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Fuel Scarcity, Naira Redesign: Tinubu Shedding Crocodile Tears – Atiku/Okowa Campaign The Atiku/Okowa Campaign Organization has criticized the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, for trying to blackmail President Muhammadu Buhari and blaming the federal government for “his looming devastating rejection by Nigerians.”… Those Threatening Me Will Never Win”- Wike Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has stated that those threatening to deal with him when they win the 2023 presidential election will never win… ‘We Receive At Least Five Stroke Cases Every Week At UPTH’ A medical expert, Professor Sunday Chinenye says that the incidence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like diabetes and stroke continues to increase yearly even as at least five cases of stroke with gloomy outcomes are seen… Mixed Feelings Trail Approved N2.3bn For Local Assembly Of Aircraft THE recent approval of the sum of N2.3 billion for the commencement of local assembly of Magnus Centennial Aircraft at Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, Zaria, Kaduna State by the Federal Executive Council… 