The Department of State Services (DSS) on Friday reassured the Nation Nigerians and the International Community of its commitment to the maintenance of law and order, including an accomplishment of a free and fair 2023 election as already pledged by President Mohamod Buhari In a statement made available to news men in Abuja by  its Spokesperson, Dr Peter Afunnaya, the Service urged all and sundry to join in the pursuit of national stability and unity The statement refuted an online publication by a National Daily published on 5th January, 2023  captioned, “Court Stops DSS from Arresting INEC Chairman” insisting that the Service was  not in Court against the INEC Chairman as alleged According to the statement, Dr Afunanya maintained that the newspaper skewed what transpired at the Court and reported it out of context. “It is against this backdrop that the Service pointed out its disapproval to the Editorial authorities of the Newspaper. The outfit, which though argued that what was reported in its online version was different from the hard copy, promised to address the concerns raised but did not. “This statement, however, becomes important to guide public understanding and perception, especially that the said report is misleading. It falsely left an impression that the Service went to Court against the INEC Chairman. Dr Afunnaya declared that ,” the Service is aware of the antics of some mischievous elements who are desirous of fomenting the crisis in the country, including creating unnecessary controversies around the forthcoming general elections. According to him, “one of their strategies is to subvert the efforts of the Service in ensuring peaceful coexistence and harmony. Another is a determination to overheat the polity and subtly exploit the judiciary to distract or even undermine not only the Service but other security and law enforcement agencies from undertaking their constitutional roles”. The DSS, therefore, warned these individuals and groups to desist from their devious plans. It also advised all critical stakeholders to be vigilant and resist attempts to use them to thwart the law. While assuring Nigerians and the International Community of the Service’s commitment to the maintenance of law and order, including an accomplishment of a free and fair 2023 election as already pledged by Mr President and Commander-in-Chief, the Service  urged all and sundry to join in the pursuit of national stability and unity. 