The Law firm of Falana and Falana has requested the Chief Coroner of High Court of Lagos State, Ikeja to conduct inquest into the death of one Inspector Monday Orukpe. The request was contained in a letter dated January 5, 2023 and signed by Taiwo  Olawanle on behalf of the Chamber. Inspector Orukpe was killed on August 3, 2022 at the Trade Fair section of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Lagos. The letter stated in part: “Our attention has just been drawn to the brutal killing of one Inspector Monday Orukpe and torturing of four others, all of the Ojo Division of the Lagos State Police Command. “Precisely on Wednesday, August 3, 2022, it was alleged that about 30 privates of the Nigerian Army while on transit at the Trade Fair section of the ever-busy Lagos-Badagry Expressway attacked five policemen for stopping vehicles along their lane to pave way for other vehicles to pass. “Angered by this development, the soldiers heavily descended on the senior officer leading the team of policemen and eventually murdered one Inspector Monday Orukpe and injured four others. “It would interest Your Lordship to know that save for the maturity and skill of the officers of the Nigeria Police Force involved, the event would have left many injured and killed including innocent civilians going about their normal business activities. “Having regard to the avoidable tragic incident, we humbly request you to use your good offices to cause a thorough investigation into this allegation and fish out the members of the Nigerian Army who carried out this uncivilised act on the personnel of a sister security agency carrying out their constitutional mandates. “Having regard to the avoidable tragic incident, we humbly request you to use your good offices to cause a coroner’s inquest to be conducted into the cause of the death of this police officer and make appropriate recommendations under Section 15 of the Lagos State Coroner’s Law 2007 which provides that an inquest shall hold whenever a coroner is informed that the death of a deceased person within his Coroner District is as a result of a death in a violent, unnatural or suspicious situation”, the letter stated. Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 