Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has urged all the opposition party candidates including the All Progressives Congress candidate, Senator Teslim Folarin to withdraw their candidacy for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Seyi Makinde. This was revealed Thursday at the PDP rally in Ibadan, Oyo state capital by the G5 governors’ spearhead. Wike argued that Seyi Makinde is the only reputable contender running, asking voters to back the governor of Oyo in the state’s gubernatorial election. He went on to say, “I do not want to market a weak product. Do you want to market a weak product (referring to the crowd)? You already know Seyi Makinde has done well since you gave him the mandate in 2019. And therefore, the only way can benefit more is for you to allow him to continue the good works he has started. “Let me use this opportunity and tell all of you (the electorates) if anybody is contesting (for the Oyo guber election) in other parties, today, 5th January 2023, please I’m giving you the final notice, withdraw now! “The people of Oyo have spoken that it is PDP. Vote for Seyi as governor, vote for House of Reps, vote for NAAS (National Assembly), The other one (president), Seyi will talk to you.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy  LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy… FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts The Federal Government is putting the final touches to all necessary measures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state, and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally