Former Vice President and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar has stated that he will not lower himself to the level of All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Atiku, who stated that he is dedicated to his contract with Nigerians, alleged Tinubu resolved to launch a personal attack to discredit him. In a statement issued Thursday, the PDP’s Presidential candidate stated that if elected, his administration will assemble a team of some of the smartest and best Nigerians from within the country and the Diaspora to assist in the country’s reconstruction. “I have since resolved not to descend to the level of personal attacks and lies being peddled by my opponents. Nor will I join issues with those who, in an attempt to cover their character deficiencies, resort to mudslinging and gutter language, in a desperate attempt to disparage their fellow contestants. “I’d rather take the high road of dignity and statesmanship to continue to advance our manifesto, as we continue to inform the Nigerian people of how the Atiku-Okowa government intends to stop the slip into the abyss by a country that is so blessed with human and natural resources. “I will remind them about our past success when I served Nigeria meritoriously as the Vice President in the government that has been adjudged as the best so far since our return to democracy in 1999. “I want to share our dreams and achievable development plans for today and our future. “We shall assemble a team of some of the brightest and best Nigerians that abound within the country and in the Diaspora to assist in rebuilding our country. This is my commitment and my contract with the Nigerian people. “To this end, my priorities shall include but not be limited to unifying the nation to give every citizen that is a Nigerian, every state and every gender, religion and ethnicity a sense of justice, inclusion, equity and trust. “We shall not only ensure that all Nigerians are treated equally, but that they feel safe and secure as opposed to the regime of pervasive insecurity that has gripped the entire country for too long.  “We shall also be preoccupied with resetting Nigeria’s battered economy, especially finding sustainable solutions to the recurring issues of debt management, deficits, subsidies and the flagging value of the Naira. “The boosting of crude oil production, stoppage of oil theft and ramping up of non-oil exports to improve earnings are also top on my priorities”, the statement read. Atiku promised to reshape education, accelerate growth, and restructure socioeconomic and political processes. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 