Kunle Afoloyan’s ‘Anikulapo’ is officially the most watched movie on Netflix in Nigeria in 2022, according to the popular streaming data provider, FlixPatrol. This is considered a huge feat in the Nigerian movie industry. Given that the Nigerian epic fantasy film Anikulapo surpassed huge international projects like ‘RRR’ and ‘Adam Project’ to secure the top spot on the world’s leading streaming entertainment service provider; considering both movies were released in March while the Nigerian movie was released in September 30, 2022.This is hardly surprising considering that the Netflix original debuted to rave reviews and quickly became the most watched non-English film globally with a total of 8,730,000 global views within a few weeks. However, 2022 was indeed a remarkable year in the Nollywood industry as the Nigerian audience consumed a lot of Nigeria local content with only four foreign titles making the top 10 list. The epic film Anikulapo tells the story of love, death and betrayal following a young man’s quest for greener pastures, who encounters a mythical bird (Akala) with the power to give him another chance to live. Among the notable Nollywood stars that featured in the movie are: Kunle Remi; Bimbo Ademoye; Sola Sobowale; Hakeem Kae-Kazim; Taiwo Hassan, Adebayo salami and yinka quadri. Other rated popular movies on Netflix in Nigeria for 2022 are: ‘RRR’, ‘Adam project’, ‘The Griot’, ‘Breaded life’, ‘The Tinder Swindler’, ‘Man of God,’ ‘Chief Daddy 2’,’ The School of Good and Evil’, ‘Dwindle’.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details)  The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion 