An enchanting Caribbean Island famous for its beauty and water activities, Grenada is a popular tourist destination. With beautiful beaches and mountains for hiking, who wouldn’t want to possess a piece of this paradise? Keeping in view the growing number of applicants looking to settle here, the Grenadian Parliament passed the Citizenship by Investment Act in 2013. Therefore, The Grenada Citizenship by Investment Program was launched in the same year in August 2013. According to the program, an applicant should either make a substantial economic contribution to the country or invest in a qualifying asset approved by the government. It provides an affordable and fast option to establish full citizenship and a passport in under six months. The process is straightforward and aims to generate foreign investment through capital and real estate investments and offers investors citizenship and a passport. An E-2 Treaty with the United States has been signed by Grenada. Grenada has no capital gains or dividends taxes. On the contrary, it has an Annual Stamp Tax of 0.5 percent for receipts under $111,000 and 0.75 percent for receipts above that amount. Individuals, who value the freedom and privacy that second citizenship or a second passport can offer, would be highly benefitted from this program. Grenada recognizes dual citizenship. So investors can still benefit from their current passports. For each additional dependent, an extra donation of $25,000 is required. It is also important to note that when a family includes an eligible parent not exceeding the age of fifty-five years, an additional contribution of $50,000 is required for the post-approval contribution. If an application includes an eligible sibling, an additional contribution of $75,000 will be for the same.  An applicant must invest a minimum of $220,000, and the said amount has to be maintained for a minimum of four years. This minimum amount includes the main applicant, his/her spouse, and two qualifying dependents. An extra $25,000 is required for each additional dependent. It is important to note that where an application includes an eligible parent not exceeding the age of fifty-five years, an additional contribution of $50,000 is to be made with the post-approval contribution. If an application includes an eligible sibling, an additional contribution of $75,000 is to be made with the post-approval contribution. In five years, Real Estate investments can be returned. The investors should buy shares in state-approved projects. The investor is allowed to sell the property in 5 years and return a part of the money spent on citizenship. One needs to provide evidence of ownership of the property owner. Apartments or units in five-star resorts by popular and internationally recognized developers are generally the properties that can be purchased. A rental yield on the property can be earned by the investors. They can also enjoy holidays at those beautiful locations. A certain amount of deposit is paid initially on application, with the total amount being due. That is to be paid only after approval of citizenship.