THE Nigerian Exchange Plc (NGX) has appointed a company secretary to function in an acting capacity until it gets a substantive company secretary to fill the role, the firm said in a regulatory filing on Friday. The development followed the recent resignation of Mojisola Adeola, who left the position at the end of last year. She is tentatively replaced by Obehi Ikhaghe, a legal practitioner with experience totalling 13 years covering corporate law, company secretarial and general legal practice. “She is a graduate of the University of Lagos and holds a master’s degree in law from the same institution,” the NGX said in a statement signed by CEO Oscar Onyema. The new official was previously a member of the NGX Company Secretariat Team, working with the team over the last half a decade.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria…  Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 