Drug abuse includes the use of any drug or medication for recreational purposes, or to feel good, help with sleep e.t.c. They may have been originally prescribed drugs (medications) for pain, such as following accidents with serious injuries such as Tramadol. They may also be illegal drugs such as cannabis (Indian hemp) or cocaine and heroin. Alcohol is also a drug, albeit a socially acceptable one, but it can also be abused with serious consequences. By their action, all these drugs have something in common: they act on the brain and cause sedation, as well as changes in the mood, thinking or behavior of the individual. It may also cause relaxation and a feeling of calmness, or block the sensation of pain or tiredness. This latter effect is often the reason why drug use is popular among menial labourers and some road transport workers who toil from morning till evening – come rain or shine. Common fallacies about drug abuse The problem with these fallacies is that they help is feel good and we console ourselves that we don’t have any problem, so we can continue just like always. However, the danger is that our body gradually becomes used to the drug and if the habit is sustained, it will get to a stage where we will then find it very difficult to do anything without taking the drug. This is the stage where addiction sets in. The stages of substance use Illustration of these stages with the story of Funke While the common argument is that I know someone, who has been doing or taking drugs for several years and nothing has happened to that person; the real question is, do you want to gamble with your own life? Our bodies are different and our ability to tolerate different drugs also vary. However, what is not in doubt is that drug abuse frequently results in serious complications – including death from overdose.  Once addiction sets in, it is extremely difficult to break the habit – even in the best of facilities abroad. For example, several celebrities in Europe and America with drug abuse problems are usually in and out of rehabilitation centres like a revolving door. And this pattern persists until some of them die from drug overdose. Famous but unfortunate examples abound, such as Michael Jackson who started from taking medications purportedly to help him sleep better until he started taking different combinations in high dosed until he died from drug overdose. Other examples include Amy Winehouse, Whitney Houston e.t.c. In Nigeria, we are fortunate that the rain maker, our very own mega super star of the 90s, Majek Fashek survived his self-confessed challenges and is doing well with rehabilitation at the moment. Conclusion: Let us all take heed and share the message to our children and loved ones that: Prevention is always better than seeking for cure – particularly with respect to drug abuse.   