Several indicators are exemplified when one uses symbolic or mathematical logic to analyse the “Leader with ego.” He is boisterous, thrives on self-thought-out or imagined deductive assumptions and vainglory. He is the chief executive of his environment and lacks the moral tie for genuine group harmony or group activated or value-adding inspiration. He thrives on the adulation of hangers-on and bootlickers. They flatter him for patronage or “a piece of the action.” He sees people as objects for his inordinate and selfish ambitions. As far as he is concerned, profit and shareholder value, guaranteed by individual citizens are signposts of his success. He likes to control and give orders and his people must obey them. The leader with ego never gives members of his team the glory of success. He takes all the glory. He appropriates to himself group successes. Managing people for profit and shareholder value (as opposed to stakeholders’ value or citizen’s value) is not leadership. Management is control. It is the interplay of three constraints namely, quality, time and money. Whichever takes priority, the other two suffer. For instance, it takes more time and more money to create quality. The big difference with leadership is that, if you push the people, you really cannot accurately and correctly discern the way they will go and which way they are thinking. But if you lead them and get them to follow you, then you have the value-adding skill that people should have to be a leader. Power comes when the people you are leading support you voluntarily. When that support comes to you, you have the power as the leader. But if you start to arrogate that power, then you will get less support from the people. Leaders are failing today because they took all the powers. They did not give it back to the people they were leading. What is the strength that creditably enables change apart from frameworks, charts, barrage of data and metrics? It is people focus that galvanizes individual endowments and abilities of citizens at all levels. In our efforts to achieve outstanding performance, build share and create wealth, we must be creative, intuitive and very dynamic. These three are embedded in insight. The people-focus strategy guarantees an intuitive grasp which enables well thought-through, pragmatic and practical perspective of prospective plans for growth and development. When you are natural and intuitive, you achieve far reaching results or outcomes. Flexible and adaptive talents guarantee creative and innovate solutions. What is our take-out from all these: our drive for beneficial progress must rest on the pillars of creativity and collective intuitive interface. A leader without ego must therefore stimulate the eminently practical and refreshingly clear creative process. The leader with ego confuses us all the time, with fallacious economic numbers. Nigerians from various tribes have always been known to be imaginative entrepreneurs with bold, brilliant, dynamic and innovative ideas. It is worthy of note that these “original” ideas emanate from natural talents, insight and creative intuition.  Leadership is the most valuable commodity but also the rarest. It is endowed through that discipline of self-denial. You cannot buy it and you cannot sell. You either have it or you do not. Let us look at the psychology of culture and place it side by side with leadership. Culture is the umbrella of unwritten norms that guide behaviour. Culture guides the people as to what is right or wrong. There are two key values behind culture. It guarantees enhanced productivity and ensures peace in societies. If properly harnessed, it promotes violence-free societies. But how people react in different societies or even communities depends on how they cope with five dilemmas, among others namely; hierarchy versus equality, individualism versus collectivism, performance orientation versus caring for others about quality of life, uncertainty avoidance versus not worrying about uncertainty and flexibility versus discipline. Please, note that it is the people at the bottom of the social pyramid that determine the “power distance”. In other words, they are the ones that accept or not accept what I will call “parasitic hierarchy” as we have it in Nigeria today. It is the people that must refuse to accept leadership with ego whose unique signpost, as we all know, is greed. Some of the multiplier effects of greed include but not limited to; tribal hegemony, short-sighted group interests, the well-known cliché of “what is in it for me?” and procreating for unbelievable advantage or reason. The era of the “Alpha male human leader” or the domineering aggressive and self-centred opportunist is gone, and should be gone for good.