NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday ex-pressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May. In their various reactions, the Association of the Middle Belt Ethnic Nationalities (ASOMBEN); Yoruba sociopolitical organisation, Afenifere; Activists for Good Governance and the Transformation Monitoring Group (TMG), lamented that the humongous debt portfolio constituted a land- mine for the next political dispensation. National president of ASOMBEN, Sule Kwasau, who claimed that the de- velopment is a clear indication that the country is in a terrible financial crisis that could snowball into a recession, lamented that such revelation was com- ing less than five months to the end of the tenure of the Buhari administration. “It shows we are in a deep financial crisis and we are likely to go into a deep recession. You can imagine the way and man- ner in which this outgoing administration has been borrowing from left and right to finance dubious projects with less than five months to go. “You can see how they have been collecting loans to finance the budget. This is the largest budget of any Nigerian government and substantial parts of these loans are going towards debt servicing, so there would be less money for capital projects. “You know full well that Nigeria’s budget has never been 100 percent implemented and this is an election year, you know how our elections are financed. “If we are not careful, part of this might be diverted towards the election. For me, this country is in chains and I pray our indebtedness doesn’t enslave us. “The loan from China is nothing but a trap. We should know that if we are unable to pay one day, they will take over our national assets like they have done in other African countries. “This government is not fair to Nigerians and to the generation yet to be born,” he said. Kwasi said the debt relief the administration of former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, secured for the country, had been bastardised by the present administration.  “This debt is a landmine and Bobby’s trap for the incoming administration to guarantee that it failed,” he said. Also, a former Nigerian Ambassador to Ukraine, Ibrahim Kassai, said the next administration could end up paying the accumulated loans at the expense of focusing on its plan for the citizens of the country. According to him, borrowing has become a routine in Nigeria under successive administrations, adding that it is un- fortunate that none of the presidential candidates is discussing how to ameliorate or tackle the situation. He said it was time Nigeria buried the idea that, “If you don’t borrow, you can’t grow,” as “it is an old theory that has put Nigeria and other African countries in a financial mess.” On its part, Afenifere noted that the rising debt profile should be a source of worry because of the frightening level of poverty among the people. Speaking through its spokesman, Comrade Jare Ajayi, the Yoruba group said the development is equally worrisome because the economic power that could offset such debt was vitiating as epitomised by the report of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), which described 63 percent of Nigerians as suffering multi-dimensional poverty.