A South-West Political Group, the Conscience Bureau (CB), has said only the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, can be trusted with the task of salvaging Nigeria during this period. In a statement on Monday, the group called on Nigerians to discountenance the recent endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, urging Nigerians to be wary of such endorsement. The pressure group recalled that when the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by Senator Bola Tinubu and other leaders went to seek Obasanjo’s endorsement for then General Muhammadu Buhari’s presidential ambition on December 13, 2013, Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, warned based on what could pass for premonition that such an endorsement could lead the country to a shipwreck. According to the statement by Conscience Bureau’s General Secretary, Mr. Said Ologuneru, “going by what Nigeria and Nigerians have gone through between 2015 and now under the APC Presidency, it is apparent that Nigeria had experienced a shipwreck, as Soyinka predicted.” The group advised Nigerians “not to allow a repeat of that horrible experience.” “We are under no illusion, therefore, that Obi’s endorsement by Obasanjo this time is tottering on the same lane as when the APC designated Obasanjo as its navigator in 2013, a development which Professor Soyinka described as heading for a shipwreck. “Only a shipwreck could take the Nigerian Naira from N190 to one US dollar in 2015 to N780 in 2023 or a litre of petrol from N85 in 2015 to N350 in December 2022,” the group said. It warned Nigerians to avoid another shipwreck, which the endorsement of the LP candidate portends, noting that “Nigerians must reject any attempt to perpetuate the APC’s evil reign beyond 2023.” “As widely reported by the national newspapers in Nigeria on December 23, 2013, the Nobel Laureate, Professor Soyinka, had noted that Nigeria might be heading for a ‘shipwreck’ after the APC said it was choosing Chief Obasanjo as its ‘Navigator’ in its touted effort to wrest power from then President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015. “As nature had it, the “Navigator” led the APC into Aso Rock Villa, and President Muhammadu Buhari replaced Goodluck Jonathan. Today, we all are witnesses to the wreckage the nation’s ship has experienced,” the group said.  The group further noted that Soyinka’s warning, which Nigerians refused to heed in the 2015 presidential election, eventually led the country into troubled waters as evident in the country’s ailing economy, growing insecurity, and hardship being faced by Nigerians today. Conscience Bureau said it was important for the electorate to save the country from another shipwreck ahead of the 2023 general election, saying that Nigerians must look beyond the APC, which Obasanjo endorsed in the past, and Peter Obi, as both cannot help the country in its present state. According to the Conscience Bureau, the huge challenges now facing the country after eight years of Obasanjo-recommended administration should be an admonition to Nigerians not to follow another sentimental endorsement from the former president, just as they should not allow individuals such as Tinubu, who brought “Buhari’s misguided administration upon Nigeria,” to take the saddle of leadership. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE