The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is set for a return to the tube with a newly-packaged 30 minutes weekly television programme that will regularly x-ray the Nigerian telecommunications and Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry and provide awareness for telecommunications consumers across the country and beyond. The weekly programme, aptly tagged, ‘Telecoms Weekly’, debuted on NTA Network Services, comprising more than 45 stations across the 36 states and Abuja last week, at 5pm. All local NTA stations are expected to hook up to the programme at 5pm every Tuesday. The radio version of the programme will also air on Thursdays at 8pm on the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) Network for simultaneous transmission to all states of the federation with all the local FRCN stations expected to hook up during the weekly programme. The programme is expected to add to the Commission’s share of voice on radio and television in a bid to provide stakeholders with timely information about developments and issues in the telecommunications industry. Apart from simplifying issues about telecommunications services for the average consumer, one of the cardinal focuses of the programme will be to continuously create awareness among various stakeholders about the activities and programmes of the Commission as it seeks to achieve regulatory excellence. User experiences, gathered through consumer-related events and vox pop, will be used to spice the programme to enable the cross-section of consumers of telecommunications services to learn from such experiences and apply them in the usage of their services. Expert opinions will also feature prominently to facilitate the process of creating awareness about the industry. Also, quiz sessions, where viewers and listeners will win prizes will be a regular feature of the programme.  READ FROM ALSO NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 