Nigerian doctors have taken online to share alarming stories of how they were being attacked while on duty. The doctor with the Twitter handle @Sports_Doctor2 had started a thread of how he was almost lynched to death in the course of discharging his duties. This comes on the heels of the murder of one of his colleagues, Dr Uyi Iluobe, by gunmen who attacked his hospital, Olive Clinic, at Oghareki, in the Ethiope West Local Government Area on New Year’s Eve. In his case, he was almost beaten to death by an aggrieved family who accused him of killing their daughter following his intervention. He described the experience as a terrifying moment of his life claiming that Nigerian doctors have no future practicing medicine in Nigeria. ALSO READ: Doctors set to shut hospitals over colleague’s murder “The day I knew I didn’t have a future practicing medicine in Nigeria was the day I was almost beaten by a patient relative in children’s emergency after their daughter died. “It took the quick thinking of the matron to use her body as shield to save me that night. What happened? “It was a Saturday morning and I was on call in Children’s Emergency. “I arrived my happy self, cracked jokes with the matron on call and did a brief ward round with the consultant, and Senior Register on call. We came to this baby girl that was looking seriously sick.  “She looked like a ske*** as she was severely malnourished, this also caused her to have severe sepsis(infection). “My consultant noticed the antibiotics she was placed on weren’t working as she was still having fever, changed it, and told me to write a referral to Dietitians. “The dietitians came reviewed and wrote out a diet plan for the child. Now if you see the parents of this girl, they both were looking healthy with the father looking like a weight lifter. “The mum was told to go get the new drugs outside as it wasn’t available in the hospital. “Now from just looking at that child, you would know she’s been sick at home for a long time but her parents didn’t bother to bring her to the hospital up until now her situation is critical. It was evening and the mother had not gotten the drug until her child entered “crisis”. “We resuscitated her, that was when the consultant shouted at her and she left to get the drug immediately.