ROTIMI IGE, in this report, features the reactions of various musicians and entertainment industry stakeholders across Africa who opine that Nigeria’s Afrobeats is leaving no stone unturned in drowning other continental genres of music. Nigerian musicians, armed with the broad classification that the world knows now as ‘Afrobeats’, have taken the world by storm and in 2022, broke records in all ramifications. From Nigeria to South Africa, Asia, Europe to the rest of the world, artistes like Wizkid, Burna Boy, Asake, Ruger, Kizz Daniel, Yemi Alade dominated the line up of the biggest musical festivals with critical acclaim. They would also headline their own events across various continents, selling out venues with thousands of fans, cut across different nationalities in attendance. It is safe to say, that Nigerian musicians were the most sought after on the African continent. So big was the impact of Nigerian music that the World Cup celebrations in Qatar had Davido on its theme song. Kizz Daniel, among other Nigerian stars also had their turns at the fan park during the tournament. For streaming platforms, Nigerian entertainers became their cynosure, with the likes of Youtube, Spotify, Prime Video, Audiomack etc having dedicated presence in the country. International record labels also came for the most popular artistes with mouth watering deals. All these expanded the boundaries for local artistes and blew them to international standards, breaking various records along the line. These successes have had its impact across Nigeria and indeed Africa. While Nigerian artistes, industry stakeholders and event organisers across the world have been smiling to the banks with increased revenue streams, some of their African counterparts not been so lucky, and have been voicing their concerns recently. In 2020, a Cameroonian actor and comedian known as Pancho Cy International called on his fellow countrymen to shun Nigerian artistes and their crafts, claiming Nigerians entertainment was being celebrated more than their local content. He claimed that while Nigerian music was widely played and appreciated in Cameroon, the same could not be said of Cameroonian music in Nigeria. “Ask any Nigerian DJ to play any Cameroonian song and all they would play is Awilo Logomba,” he said. He also pointed out that when Wizkid visited Cameroon, he was given palatial reception by the presidency while no Cameroon artiste had ever enjoyed such honour. Cameroonian singer, AmbeDiSing, in October last year, also called out his countrymen for playing more of Nigerian music in their clubs.  Ambe took to the Facebook to say that he has observed that many Nigerian clubs in the US play 95 percent of Nigerian music but when he returns to Cameroon, he finds that his people also play majorly Nigerian music in their clubs. He questioned why this was so and called on the DJs to play songs by Cameroonian artistes in their clubs, not Nigerian songs. He added, “Y’all cannot be spending all that Cameroonian sweat on Nigerian music while Nigerians spend their Nigerian sweat on Nigerian music… Do the maths oh.” A popular Cameroonian focused blog, Zamani, known for championing the cause of the country’s talent, recently published a series of articles citing reasons  Cameroonians seemed to be absent from African and global music ranking/support. In its ‘Nigeria versus Cameroon’ article published on December 27, 2022, it wrote, “When Nigerian artistes drop their songs, they contact their best comedians to use their songs in their skits , they go as far as getting over 50 TikTok influencers to dance to the songs and make it go viral on TikTok. Before you know it , the song is everywhere . They pay radio stations and go on media tours . They do everything to promote their music and the song becomes a trend . Kizz Daniel used Sabinus , Broda Shaggi and Brain Jotter to promote ‘Cough’ . Don Jazzy used Sabinus and Brain Jotter to introduce his artiste Bayanni. Their industry is interconnected from comedy to movies and  music. “When Cameroonian artistes drop a song , they sit and say, “a good song doesn’t need promo, if it was to go viral it will go viral” . Some even add that Cameroonian blogs are not enough and before you know it they start blaming it on Nigerians. Do Cameroonian artistes even value bloggers , comedians or TikTokers? No! Their relationship with the media is terrible . They always think they can do it all by themselves till it bounces”.