The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi State as well as its gubernatorial candidate, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir have been warned to forthwith stop the smear campaign and calumny against the person of the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Amb Saddique Baba Abubakar. The APC however predicted that the tactics the ruling PDP is using to campaign that the APC gubernatorial candidate is not an indigene of the state will aid the APC in winning the sympathy of the electorate. The warning was made by the Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee of the APC and spokesperson of the party’s gubernatorial candidate, Comrade Sabo Mohammed, describing the tactic as “desperate, archaic and counter-productive in a democracy.” Sabo Mohammed who addressed journalists in Bauchi lamented that rather than talking about issues, “the PDP has engaged in non-issues based campaigns” saying that such tactics deployed by the government of the day in the past against former Governors Isa Yuguda and Mohammed Abdullahi ended up achieving opposite results to the then administrations. According to him, “The ruling PDP in the state are wasting their time talking about Air Marshal Abubakar indigenes hip.” He reminded them that, “It happened to Isa Yuguda who was even expelled from a political party on the basis that he didn’t hold the indigeneship and it only landed him into the Government House. It happened to Mohammed Abdullahi and the price was it landed him victory” Sabo Mohammed maintained that the APC gubernatorial candidate is a Nigerian “who has contributed undoubtedly, unequivocally immensely in the development of his fatherland Nigeria by serving at the peak of Nigeria Air force as Chief of Air Staff.” He also said that President Muhammadu Buhari in several fora had commended Abubakar’s efforts and showed him encomiums for his nationalist contribution towards the improvement of the security of the country. “He is a Nigerian first before becoming the indigene of Bauchi. Nobody, based on the Constitution in any way is in doubt of his indigeneship,” the APC spokesperson stated. He stressed that “To make it clear, Air Marshal Sadiiqque Abubakar was born in Azare and grew up in Bauchi, schooled at Saint Paul’s primary school, Bauchi and Government College, Bauchi before he proceeded to University.”  “He is well known and has interacted far and wide within the nook and cranny of the state.” According to him, “In modern politics what we are interested in is your service to humanity and none of them even the ruling party and other contestants, is in doubt about his capacity, about his integrity, about his competent and about his ability to take the state to the next level.” “The ruling party should stop hallucinating. They are raising non-issues because history has shown that blackmailing a candidate on the basis of his origin only aids him in securing victory. It helped Yuguda and Abdullahi to secure the people’s mandate and they served the State,” he added. Sabo Mohammed stressed that “What is paramount at this level is his pedigree. He studied Political Science and Administration before he took his sojourn into the Nigeria Air Force and served at several capacities and in various states.” He also said that “That gave him the opportunity to interact with people at different levels and at the time he was Chief of Air Staff he was privy to interact with members of the National assembly and that improved his skills in a democratic administration.” “He is an ardent supporter of issue-based campaign and that’s why he has never joined issues with any of the contesters in spite of the insults and blackmail against his person and candidature”, he stressed.