Nigerian singer, Divine Ikubor, popularly known as Rema, has disclosed that being a successful singer at his age comes with a lot of pressure. Rema, who is rated as one Nigeria’s finest music exports to the world, has continued to raise his game and hold his place in the music industry. One of his hit songs, Calm Down, thrilled football spectators at the just concluded FIFA World Cup in Qatar as the singer’s profile rose even higher Speaking with Notjustok platform and monitored by R, the singer talked about the pressure he faces being one of the most talked about artistes in Africa, Rema who made a transition from gospel to secular music, said switching from Afrobeats to hip hop was a tough decision. Shedding more light on the feeling of being a music star, he said sometimes he feels the pressure because he understands every young person out there wants the opportunity he has, pointing out that “I feel honoured to be blessed with this opportunity.” “I feel this pressure a lot of times. I am a young guy; just 22 and sometimes I feel like I have the whole calling my name. The more I realise how big this is, the more I realise I have to put in so much work,” he said. The Mavin Records signee lamented how he doesn’t get to see his family for months, adding that “music is equally important to me because I am making a lot of impact in the lives of many young people and even the elderly.” This moment, according to him, is more important to him because no one from “Benin City has had this big platform. I am the next big music artiste to come out of Benin City who is this big and I am glad to pose as an inspiration. “I just want to stand as a music icon from Benin City, Nigeria and I am grateful for this platform and opportunity,” he added. Rema, who once headed a gospel rap group in church, noted that the switch began when he started going to sing at bars and lounges to make ends meet.   YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 