The majority leader of the Kwara State House of Assembly, Hon. Olawoyin Magaji is dead. It was gathered that the deceased, 57, died in the wee hours of Monday following an undisclosed protracted illness. Olawoyin, who represented Magaji Ngeri/Ilorin Central constituency in the Ilorin West local government area, emerged as a principal lawmaker in 2019 in the APC-dominated 9th Assembly. In his condolence message, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq described his death as “sad and shocking”. “He was a core party man and we will miss him as a grassroots politician and a great lawmaker who truly distinguished himself as the Leader of the 9th House of Assembly,” the governor said. While commiserating with the Emir of Ilorin over the incident, the governor prayed to Almighty Allah to forgive and grant the deceased Paradise and comfort his family. On his part, the Kwara PDP governorship candidate, Alhaji Abdullahi Shuaib Yaman, said the “shocking” incident was coming at a critical period in the country’s democratic transition at a time he is still active in the service of the state”. Yaman also commiserated with the Emir of Ilorin, Governor Abdulrahmanan Abdulrazaq, and Speaker, among others and prayed to Allah to grant him paradise. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku  The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer. N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday ex-pressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts