The just-concluded Sean Dampte live in concert held at the Terra Culture, Lagos, came with pomp, glamour and at the same time, ticketing issues. Many fans complained of being unable to secure tickets at the gate due to the crowd situation. However, the event was well-attended with energetic performances from popular artistes and dancers, such as 1da Banton, Soft, Magnito, Rayce, Don Jazzy’s dad also graced the event. Meanwhile, the high point of the night was when the man of the moment, Sean Dampte, mounted the stage with his live band to unleash a brilliant performance. He left the audience stunned with many hit songs from his repertoire. The event, which has been the talk of town for more reasons than the unforgettable experience courtesy of Sean Dampte, has provided an account of uproar from eager atendees who couldn’t access the concert venue as a result of the overwhelming crowd situation. While reports of ticketing issues lingered as the major cause of this happening, organisers of the event admitted to underestimating the capacity of Sean’s audience in Nigeria. On the brighter side though, Dampte, still basking in the euphoria of the success of the concert, has assured his fans that ‘Sean Dampte Live In Concert’ would come alive at Abuja, United Kingdom and many other locations at later dates with more effective measures that will rectify this sitaution and cater to a larger crowd. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials  The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion 