Much as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would have loved the endorsement of former President Olusegun Obasanjo as he did in 2019, the main opposition party says it is comfortable without it. Spokesman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council, Charles Aniagwu, gave this position on Monday, affirming that the party is, therefore,  not bothered by him throwing his weight behind Labour Party (LP) Presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi. Speaking on the AIT Television programme, “Kakaaki,” he said that the party is comfortable with the numerous endorsements from Nigerians across the country. Aniagwu, who is also the Delta State Commissioner for Information, said Obasanjo is one leader that enjoys respect across the country but the party is quite happy with the endorsements it has received from Nigerians which could be seen from the different rallies held thus far. He stated: “We have organic convergence of Nigerians in all our rallies and at the end of the day their vote is what matters than any other thing. “We would have loved to have Obasanjo’s endorsement just like he did in 2019 when he endorsed and supported Atiku Abubakar because he believed that he had what it takes to take Nigeria out of the current situation. “Democracy allows you the latitude to make choices and he has made his own choice and we do believe that most Nigerians are already making their own choices and from what we have seen Atiku is already favoured to win this election. “We don’t have any problem with Obasanjo endorsing anybody because that is his democratic right and you can’t take it away from him but Nigerians at the end of the day will make the ultimate choice of who governs them for the purpose of recovering Nigeria from where we are at the moment,” Aniagwu said the party will not begrudge Obasanjo for the choice of Obi, rather it will buoy the party to intensify engagements with relevant stakeholders across the country. He further said: “The PDP Presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar, his running mate Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and indeed our presidential campaign council are not ruffled because we do realise from the beginning that we are going into a contest.  “We knew it wasn’t going to be a roller-coaster and that is why we have continued to interface with Nigerians across the six geopolitical zones. “In this contest, nobody is an underdog and we do have respect for all candidates contesting this election but we do believe that we stand taller than any of the contestants. “We are convinced that Nigerians would likely look in our direction because our presidential candidate and his running mate have got the credentials to be able to position our country and recover it from where we are at the moment. “So, if a former President under the PDP has decided to pitch his tent with another person is not something that will ruffle us, it will only strengthen us to further deepen our interface with Nigerians for them to understand where we are headed that Atiku-Okowa is the only ones that have what it takes to lead Nigeria out of the woods.” According to the presidential campaign spokesman, Obasanjo in endorsing Atiku in 2019, made it very clear that the PDP flag bearer has the experience and described him as “the president for the time”. The Delta State Information Commissioner added: “I don’t think anything has changed from his views about the capability of Atiku to address the many challenges confronting us today, the challenges have become more severe which requires a man that has got the experience and candour to be able to deal with these issues.