Khosi, a female housemate on Big Brother Titans (BBTitans), asserted that dating a Nigerian man is frowned upon in her native country South Africa. Khosi was the first participant to be revealed during the BBTitans season premiere in Johannesburg, South Africa. The 25-year-old stated she had problems in her relationship because it was taboo in her own country during a house chat with the other participants. She said that the taboo had an impact on her three-year relationship. “Dating a Nigerian man is almost forbidden in South Africa. That was an issue at the beginning of her three-year relationship,” revealed the reality star, whose love interest in the house is a Nigerian named Yemi. Khosi shared this gist with Jennie O and Ebubu. When asked why, Khosi responded, “Some things are better left unsaid.” Khosi stated on Sunday that she had been in a four-year relationship with a Nigerian man in South Africa. She did, however, kiss Yemi a few hours after they met on the BBTitans season reality show. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer.  N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday expressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts THE Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has prohibited cash withdrawals from accounts belonging to the federal, state and local governments, as well as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)… Tears As Boundary Adjustment Reawakens Old Hostilities Between Gombe, Adamawa States The recent communal clash between the Waja and Lunguda communities of Gombe and Adamawa states has reawakened bad blood over boundary adjustment. The Northern Bureau Chief, MUHAMMAD SABIU… EDITORIAL: Legacy: Buhari’s Plea To Nigerians In his Christmas message last month, President Muhammadu Buhari pleaded with Nigerians of voting age to be wary of candidates who could not move Nigeria forward. Noting that the joyous season of the birth of Jesus Christ coincided with the period of campaigns that would usher in a new administration in the country…  Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 