The Zamfara state police command has rescued 15 kidnapped victims including a six-month-old baby girl at magazu forest in the state. Addressing newsmen on Thursday evening at the police command headquarters in Gusau, the police public relations officer SP Mohammed Shehu said all the victims were successfully rescued unconditionally. According to him, the victims were abducted along Gusau to Tsafe on Monday when armed bandits blocked the road and abducted commuters who were in transit. He said the rescue operation was conducted following an intelligence report gathered on the abduction of the victims. “In the course of debriefing, the victims informed the Police that they were abducted in by a large number of armed bandits who blocked Gusau to Tsafe to Magazu road and took them into the bush at Magazu forest in the state “. “The victim while at the Police Command Headquarters, Gusau was medically checked and later reunited with their family and Relations”. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Kolo Yusuf psc congratulates the rescued victims for regaining their freedom, and assured for police of continuous commitment to protecting lives and property of the citizens”. Those abducted and rescued included a six month old baby, 6 females, 7 males and 2 children in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy… FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts THE Federal Government is putting final touches to all necessary mea- sures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss