It was all fun and excitement as UncutXtra Magazine launched the maiden edition of its Award Night and 10th edition launch in Lagos State. The event is set aside to recognise the resilience and hardwork of notable Nigerian entertainers whose works have made an immerse impact in the growth of the Nigerian Entertainment industry. The event also witnessed the presence of a number of celebrities and the continuous rise of UncutXtra since it was established. The CEO of Creatrix Empire and founder of the Uncut Xtra magazine, Emmanuel Alade, at the event, commended the efforts and impacts of those who committed their energy and time to promoting Nigeria’s entertainment industry. According to him: “UncutXtra Magazine would continue to show utmost support and advocacy to personalities who have proven to be of influence in the Nigerian entertainment industry.” Those at the event included Nigeria’s popular actor, content creator and activist, Adebowale ‘Debo’ Adedayo also known as Mr Macaroni, Ex BB Naija Housemate and cover star of the UncutXtra Magazine 10th edition, Hermes Iyele, and Afro-pop singer and songwriter, Magixx who won the award for the next rated artiste of the year. Other celebrity guests included Saga Adeolu who won the award for the best content creator of the year, content creators Double Ds Twins, Sam Speedy, Vibe Doctor, Diiadem who received two awards for the Beauty influencer of the year and the best dressed for the day, skit-makers like Iya Mufu, Baba Alariya, Realsophy who won the award for the next rated comedian of the year and several other notable entertainers. The event also witnessed performances from Temilayo Abodunrin, a 13-year-old saxophonist who serenaded the audience with her mastery on the saxophone.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi  THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 