Musician turned entrepreneur, Abdulrasheed Bello, otherwise known as JJC Skillz, seems to have finally moved on from the collapsed marriage to Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele. Since their famous break-up last year after five years of marriage that produced a set of twins, JJC and Akindele seemed to have resorted to fate as they continue to pursue their private goals despite working together on some of Akindele’s big movie projects. In a post that could raise dust in the coming days, JJC captioned a video he posted on his Instagram page as “I was lost but now I am found.” While he may not mean any harm with the post as he seemed to be thanking God for forgiveness after ignoring his Islamic religion for a while,  JJC said “I asked you for pardon and well-being in my religious and worldly affairs and my family and wealth. “ He added: “Oh Allah, veil my weakness and set at ease my dismay and preserve me from the front and behind and from my right, left and above. I take refuge in you lest I be swallowed up by the earth.”  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria…  Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 