Grammy Award-winning singer Burna Boy has revealed how he almost asked out a lady he met Thursday when he stepped out in town days back. The singer broke up with her UK-based rapper girlfriend, Stefflon Don and appeared to have moved on from the once celebrated relationship. But in what looked like a search for another woman, Burna Boy said he stepped out Thursday and met a lady who instantly drew his attention and captured his heart. While Burna Boy may have conquered stages across the globe with his music and penetrated hearts with his songs, the same couldn’t be said about his ability to speak to a lady, particularly as the lady. Turned out to be a beautiful female soldier The ‘Breakfast’ singer disclosed that he couldn’t muster courage to ask the lady out. “I don’t know how to toast an army woman. As I no wan lose guard, na him I carry my wahala comot there. But my mind still dey there like this.”  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials  The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 