The Edo State Government has said that it has recorded 97 confirmed cases of Lassa Fever and nine deaths from 11 local government councils across the state. The Commissioner for Health, Prof. Obehi Akoria, who disclosed this to journalists in Benin City, said Edo has continued to witness a steady rise in the number of cases and death from the virus and urged residents to comply with all guidelines to contain the spread. She assured that efforts are being stepped up by the state government towards curbing the spread of Lassa fever in the state. The commissioner said the affected local governments include Etsako West, Esan West, Esan North East, Esan Central, Esan South East, Etsako East, Owan East, Akoko Edo, Ovia North East, Oredo and Etsako Central. Prof. Akoria urged “all Edo residents to be aware and take responsibility to work with the Ministry of Health, observe preventive measures and report early symptoms suspected to be malaria or any other illnesses that present like malaria so as to complement the government’s efforts at containing the disease”. She further charged the people to reach out to the disease surveillance or notification officers within their local government areas if they have been in contact with someone confirmed to have Lassa fever or suspect any symptoms of Lassa fever or any other priority disease. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Are Celebrating Freedom, Tinubu Says In Kwara, Vows To Fight Corruption Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Tuesday said that his administration will continue fight to eradicate corruption if elected into power in the forthcoming general elections… People Using Religion For Political Ends — Buhari  President Muhammadu Buhari has observed that some people hide under the canopy of religion to advance their economic and political agenda, and continuous education is needed so that the larger populace would not be hoodwinked… ‘INEC Won’t Surrender To Security Threats, To Conduct Mock Accreditation’ TO convince those who have expressed strong reservations about the functionality of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS), the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is planning to consider mock accreditation of voters ahead of general election… Edo Oil-Producing Community Decries Lack Of School, Health Facility, Others DESPITE being host to crude oil wells, Iguelaba community in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State lacks secondary school and functional healthcare facility, it was gathered… 