In this report, MOSES ALAO, writes on the flag-off of the re-election campaign of the Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde and the governor’s stewardship in the last 43 months. March 11, 2022 will mark the end of an important circle and the beginning of a new one for the teeming people of Oyo State. On that auspicious day, it will be four years and two days since the people of the state took the daunting decision to trust the Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, whom major political leaders in the state, back in 2019, with the onerous task of leading the state as governor. He, in 2019, had been dismissed with a wave of the hand by most political players based on the insinuation that he had no political experience, having not held any political office prior to seeking the governorship position. But the people of the state had chosen March 9, 2019 to put paid to that dismissal, entrusting him and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with the responsibility of governing the state after eight unbroken years of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN)/All Progressives Congress (APC). Many people, especially those of the APC extraction had derisively said that decision would bring nothing but regrets to the Oyo State electorate. Two months and a few days to the fourth anniversary since that decision was taken, however, it has been all joy for the people of the state, as their governor, the man who has admirably become their trusted friend and dependable leader, Governor Makinde, has spared nothing to ensure that they do not regret the decision to repose their confidence in him. Indeed, the governor had so much to say to prove how well he had justified the people’s confidence in him, when he, on Thursday, 5 January, 2022, flagged off the campaign for his re-election. From the elegantly decorated stages of the re-election flag-off event held at the historic Mapo Hall, Ibadan, the words of the governor, hit the right chords with the people of the state, as they are all living witnesses to how the Makinde administration has changed the game for good with regards to Oyo State’s development, the wellbeing and security of its people. Among his people, he has come to be adored as GSM, the Engineer of Modern Oyo State and friend of the masses, based on the unprecedented strides he has recorded in fixing the infrastructure deficit of the state and putting smiles on the faces of workers, pensioners and residents of the state. The joy on the faces of thousands, who attended the Mapo Hall event bears witness to that adoration. Little wonder the governor could declare boldly; “we have put first in all of our decisions.” In a country, where campaign flag-offs come with different ideas and experiences, with some office holders seeking re-election relishing it as a glorious moment to shine, while others are served their judgment for all lies and deceits perpetuated in office, Makinde shone bright and stood tall and got the deserved accolades for his masterful delivery of good governance in the last 43 months. Every word said could be matched with the results on the ground across the five zones of Oyo State, as the governor informed the thousands of jubilant crowd and, indeed, those in faraway locations to the Ibadan venue of the event, as the event was televised live on three national stations, about his exploits in office.  Promises made and kept While giving his stewardship account for the last 43 months, the governor said: “Under Omituntun 1.0, I promised you that, in the education sector, we would achieve the sole ownership of LAUTECH by Oyo State, and we have achieved that. Today, we have also achieved the upgrade of the Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo to a University of Education. “I promised economic prosperity to the people of Oyo State under Omituntun 1.0. I said I would take them from poverty to prosperity. We have grown the Internally Generated Revenue from N1.4bn every month in 2019 when we took over the reins of government to N3.8bn as of November 2022.  “Under Omituntun 1.0, I promised that our infrastructure would integrate all the zones of our state and target our economy. We have done the 65km Moniya-Ijaye-Iseyin Road. There is Oyo-Iseyin Road; Ogbomoso-Iseyin Road; Apete-Awotan-Akufo Road; Airport Road; Akobo flyover and others. “We scrapped the N3,000 education levy. I promised that workers and retirees would get their full salaries and pensions on/or before the 25th of every month; that date is now known as the GSM date and since 2019, workers and pensioners get paid. “I promised the people a safe and secure environment, and we brought in Amotekun.”  When the facts speak for themselves The Makinde, perhaps in choosing the option of a brief speech, had stopped at the mention of a few achievements recorded by the administration, but the admiration and applause from the crowd showed that there are more achievements, which cannot be left unsaid. From the payment of close to N12 billion in salaries and pensions to state and local government workers on or before the 25th of every month, christened GSM Date,  to the payment of close to N15 billion in gratuity arrears from 2011 to 2014, Governor Makinde has exceeded expectations as the Engineer of Happiness and Laughter. His renown among workers and pensioners, who had once been derided and insulted by Makinde’s predecessor in office and the level of understanding and cooperation shown to his administration are facts that speak for themselves, despite attempt by one of his opponents, Mr. Adebayo Adelabu of the Accord Party, to sell falsehood about the payment of salaries in the state.