At least four persons lost their lives while eight others were injured in a lone accident which occurred along Ondo/Ore road in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The accident, according to an eyewitness. involved an unregistered Nissan bus that occurred around 3 pm and attributed the accident to the carelessness of the driver. While speaking on the crash, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ore Unit Commander, Mr Sikiru Alonge, explained that the accident was caused by the loss of concentration of the driver. He said “Nineteen persons were involved in the fatal accident which comprises of ten males adult, five females adult, two male child and two female children. “Out of the nineteen persons, eight persons were injured comprising of six male adults and two female adults while four persons died on the spot, comprising of two male adults and two female adults.” According to him, the injured victims, have been taken to the hospital for treatment while the corpses of the victims had been deposited at the morgue. He warned motorists against overspeeding and loss of concentration while driving in order to save lives and property. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer.  N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday ex-pressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts Four die, eight injured in Ondo/Ore road crash 