BOLA BADMUS, DAYO AYEYEMI and SUBAIR MOHAMMED speak with some people with major stakes as the Lagos State government moves on with a project expected to lift the state but which will affect hundreds of families in the state. AS excitement builds over the proposed construction of the Fourth Mainland Bridge in Lagos State, it has been disclosed that about 48 estates will be affected. Special Adviser on Work and Infrastructure to the state governor, Mrs Aramide Adeyoye, made the disclosure while assuring affected property owners that adequate compensation, in line with international best practices, had been made to cater to the imminent loss of their property to the construction work. Speaking through the Project Director, Mr Tokunbo Ajanaku, Adeyoye, an engineer, said the state government had carried along the 48 estates, traditional rulers and others that would be affected by the bridge. On the issue of compensation, Ajanaku said: “This project passes through Lagos and Ogun states, so it is a Lagos State initiative for Lagos State and Ogun State driven by Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu and that means all of the corridors within Lagos and those within Ogun State, there is a harmonious and integrated approach to settlement and that is what we will do and each party will be properly compensated and resettled where necessary. The approach is going to be holistic. I think the issue of compensation is not the case. It is actually a composite plan to make everybody happy.” But property owners and other stakeholders are still worried about adequate compensation and resettlement, though the two state governments had created a platform known as Panel Review Meeting on the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) to discuss the project and its impacts. Property owners and stakeholders who expressed concern include Abayomi Adeleye, Olarewanju Smith, Abiola Badmus, Biodun Sunday and A. Oriloye “We will like to know from the governments of Lagos and Ogun states the standard for compensation, the exact amount to be paid to each of us, among other issues, as anything other than this will amount to forced eviction,” Oriloye stated.  Don’t panic, even tenants will be compensated –Commissioner Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, however gave the assurance that compensation would be adequate.  Speaking to Saturday Tribune, he said dwellers of Ijede and other areas would be captured in the compensation arrangement, asking the people, in Yoruba language, not to panic. He said: “This has been our tradition. You will recall that recently, when we were doing the Red-Line channel, before the construction took off in 2021, we had compensated everybody involved. We compensated all the landlords and for the first time in the history of Nigeria, we compensated the tenants for the discomfort that they had suffered because of the construction as they were asked to leave their homes suddenly and abruptly. They had to leave because of that project. This is not going to be an exception. “We have done the environmental assessment. We have taken register of all the people who are going to be affected. The experts have said that about 800 buildings are going to be affected. You can be assured that everything will be done to make people who are going to be affected comfortable. “So, there is no need for anybody to panic. The project is at its initial stage. We haven’t even done the groundbreaking but we are very sure that the project is going to be executed. We cannot execute the project without compensating the people whose homes are going to be taken away because of the project. “There is no issue about that at all. They should relax. And like Asiwaju would always say, e f’okan bale.”  How govt should handle relocation, compensation –CDC chairmen