A MAN of Ndola, Zambia, has shocked the court after his wife narrated how he took his side chick home and introduced her as his cousin. Mercy Banda who dragged her husband, Chipo Lukena to court for divorce stated that he deserted their home and made his girlfriend answer his calls when she called him. This is a case in which Mercy has sued Chipo for divorce for being unfaithful in their marriage. Mercy who has been married to Chipo for 10 years told the court that problem started in their marriage nine months after they got married. “He started deserting home and each time I called him, his girlfriend would answer his call. “He once brought his girlfriend home to stay with us and claimed that she was his cousin,” she said. Mercy narrated to the court that she caught Chipo on many occasions with other women and that the last incident she found him in a taxi with a woman. “After our relatives mediated in our differences, he decided to compensate his side chick which prompted me to tell my parents to take back the dowry, but he refused to take it,” she said. In his defence, Chipo told court that his wife was telling the truth, but that he has been apologising for being unfaithful. “In 2015, she slept with another man while I was serving a jail term.  “When I came out of prison, her lover called and told me he had sexual intercourse with my wife and that she was a prostitute,” he said. Chipo further told the court that he asked his wife for forgiveness for cheating on her, but that she decided to return the dowry he paid on her, but that he refused taking it. Passing judgment, Kabushi Local Court senior presiding magistrate, John Kabwe sitting with senior magistrate, Emelda Masuwa granted divorce without compensation stating that reconciliation had failed and dowry was already returned.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion 