The year 2023 is expected to be eventful for Nigeria’s Maritime and Rail sectors in 2023 following new developments towards the tail end of 2022, which have driven high expectations from stakeholders, writes TOLA ADENUBI. CVFF Disbursement THE Nigerian maritime scene frounded off in 2022 with announcement by the Minister of Transportation, Alhaji Muazu Jaji Sambo, that President Muhammad Buhari has approved the disbursement of the S350m and N16b Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) to indigenous shipowners. The CVFF is an intervention fund created by the Federal Government in 2003 for the development of indigenous shipping capacity in Nigeria through the maintenance of existing vessels or the purchase of new ones. The primary source of the fund is from a two percent deduction on cabotage trade earnings carried out by indigenous operators in the nation’s inland and coastal trade. With the approval by Mr President for disbursement coming in the last quarter of 2022, stakeholders are eagerly expecting a disbursement of the fund before the close of 2023 Q1. Speaking with the Nigerian Tribune on the matter, a former Chairman of the Nigerian Indigenous Shipowners Association (NISA) and MD/CEO, Sea Transport Group, Mallam Aminu Umar, explained that, “I expect the fund to have been disbursed before the end of the first quarter of 2023, with all what has been laid out by the Ministry of Transportation. “The approval for disbursement is currently on the table of the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh. The Minister of Transportation told us that the approval has been forwarded to the NIMASA DG, and I know the DG of NIMASA is currently finetuning modalities for disbursement. “Given that national election is in February, I expect the disbursement of the fund to be wrapped up before the end of first quarter of 2023 “I also expect that the new government that will be sworn in by May will continue the engagement of indigenous shipowners in the area of capacity development,” said Umar. Deep blue project  The Deep Blue Project also called the Integrated National Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure, in collaboration with the international community, has recorded tremendous success in 2022, restoring sanity to Nigerian waters. With more assets expected to be deployed to the Deep Blue project, security on Nigerian waters is expected to be much more enhanced in 2023. A United Nations report in 2022 revealed that presence of international Navies in the Gulf of Guinea (GoG) and the collaborative efforts of the Nigerian Government through the Deep Blue project has seen criminal elements abandon attack on ships and kidnapping of seafarers. NIMASA is expected to maintain the gains of the Deep Blue project through training and re-training efforts of the project’s Naval personnel in order to ensure a safer and calmer water all through 2023. IMO council elections Nigeria, in December 2021, failed in its un- relenting effort at rejoining the elitist group of maritime nations seated in the different councils of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO).