Following a tweet by Dr Chinonso Egemba, popularly known as Aproko Doctor, announcing his successful surgery,  some Twitter users have been showering encomium on Nigerian doctor, Dr Tayo Ojo who performed the surgery on him. Despite the massive outflux of Nigerian doctors abroad for greener pastures, a doctor identified as Dr Tayo Ojo has distinguished himself after being revealed by Aproko Doctor for carrying out a successful brain tumour surgery on the latter. The tweet reads“It was Dr Tayo Ojo, a neurosurgeon here in Nigeria that did the surgery. So many people begged me to leave the country and get the surgery done but something kept me back here because I still had trust in us. We just need more investment in our health sector.” Dr Ojo, a medical practitioner at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital have been receiving accolades from Netizens who have since been sharing how he saved their lives and their relatives. Read some reactions below: Same here . I was advised to traveled out but my family Doctor   insisted that Tayo  ojo  is one of the best in Nigeria .he did my surgery 6years ago in LUTH , a very good neurosurgeon. — Nonye (@sucrefashions) January 16, 2023  Dr Tayo Ojo also saved my nephew. At the time he performed the surgery on him the young was almost gone we’re going to loose him. Let’s vote in the right people Nigeria would be great again. Dr Tayo is a national treasure. — Okwe Goes There (@Okweboy) January 16, 2023   Dr Tayo Ojo has always been an inspiration to many of Us..He is a rare gemIn 2013 he won the prestigious Young Neurosurgeon award at the World Federation of Neurosurgeon .God bless Dr Tayo — Drwendy.016Freshest (@Drwendyfresh) January 16, 2023   YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors…  Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria…  Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands…  What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde…  Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 