The marriage between by a couple, Mariam Olalekan and Ibrahim Olalekan, has been dissolved by Grade A Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State, on the grounds of irresponsibility, neglect and constant fight. Mariam, who dragged her husband to court stated that she was no longer interested in the marriage and the court  should put a stop to it. Ibrahim refused to enter an appearance and hence Mariam opened her case. Mariam, in her evidence, said, “My husband is a gambler and has succeeded in ruining me. “As at today, I have nothing to show for my hard labour. “I have spent all my resources offsetting the debts  my husband acquired from making bets and now finds it difficult feeding myself and our only child. “Ibrahim impregnated me while we were dating and I moved into his house. I never knew I was signing off my joy and peace by taking such step. “My husband was never bothered about my pregnant state and gave me no attention. “He didn’t give me a dime for the medical services I received during and after pregnancy. “He likewise contributed nothing towards the provision of our child’s needs.  “The more I complained, the worse he turned out to be. “I took up the challenge of running our home and worked round the clock every day. “Ibrahim has no shame. He felt good that I fed and clothed him and our child year in, year out. “We argued over his shameful lifestyle almost all the time and he would beat me to a pulp. “I pray the court to stop our relationship. “I also plead for the custody of our child because my husband is indifferent to his welfare. “My lord, I further entreat this honourable court to enforce it that my husband be responsible for our child’s upkeep.” The case was foreclosed due to the defendant’s absence in court. Giving judgment, the court president, Mrs S.M Akintayo stated that no marriage ever existed between the duo since they never held a customary wedding. According to Akintayo, there was therefore no marriage to be dissolved.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion 