Former Governors of Ekiti and Ondo States, Ayo Fayose and Olusegun Mimiko were among the dignitaries present at the official flag-off of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State. The duo joined Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Samuel Ortom (Benue), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) who are members of the five aggrieved governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) dubbed G-5 governors. Meanwhile, Fayose and Mimiko are believed to be members of the Integrity group – a formation by the G-5 governors and some other aggrieved party leaders – calling for the immediate resignation of the PDP’s National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu shortly after Atiku Abubakar secured the presidential ticket of the party. However, as the crisis wrangling the PDP lingers, neither the party’s National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu nor its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, were present as the party in Oyo State flagged off the campaign for the re-election bid of Seyi Makinde and other PDP candidates across the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy… FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts  THE Federal Government is putting final touches to all necessary mea- sures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally 