The Church of England will refuse to allow same-sex couples to get married in its churches under proposals set out on Wednesday in which the centuries-old institution said it would stick to its teaching that marriage is between a man and a woman. Their proposal will be debated at the Church’s equivalent of a parliament – the General Synod – next month. But the Church confirmed “prayers of dedication, thanksgiving or for God’s blessing” on same-sex couples will be offered following a civil marriage or partnership. Same-sex marriage has been legal in England and Wales since 2013. But when the law changed, the Church did not change its teaching. In 2017, the Church of England began an extended consultation period called “Living in Love and Faith”. In November last year, the Bishop of Oxford became the most senior Church of England bishop to publicly back a change in the Church’s teaching. Although a handful of others supported him, they remained in the minority. The refusal to propose a vote on allowing same-sex marriage is likely to anger campaigners for change within the Church. Some have already told BBC News they will ask the synod to strike out the bishops’ proposals next month. ‘Prayers for God’s blessing’
The bishops’ decision puts the Church of England at odds with its Anglican equivalent in Scotland, The Scottish Episcopal Church, and the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, which both allow same-sex weddings. The Anglican Church in Wales has provided an authorised service of blessing for gay couples but does not allow same-sex weddings in church.  English bishops will recommend that some “prayers for God’s blessing” for gay couples in civil marriages be adopted. A controversial church document from 1991 that says clergy in same-sex relationships must remain celibate will be scrapped. And the Church will also issue an apology for the way it has excluded LGBT+ people. One liberal bishop present at the meeting said there had been “substantial progress”. “It’s evolutionary,” they said. “It’s not the end of the road.” A conservative bishop said: “We’re being honest about the fact we’re not of one mind in these issues. But we’re not going to give up walking together.” The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev’d Justin Welby, said the position “reflects the diversity of views in the Church of England on questions of sexuality”. He said: “I am under no illusions that what we are proposing today will appear to go too far for some and not nearly far enough for others, but it is my hope that what we have agreed will be received in a spirit of generosity, seeking the common good. “Most of all I hope it can offer a way for the Church of England, publicly and unequivocally, to say to all Christians and especially LGBTQI+ people that you are welcome and a valued and precious part of the body of Christ.” READ FROM ALSO NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 