The recent communal clash between Waja and Lunguda communities of Gombe and Adamawa states has reawakened bad blood over boundary adjustment. The Northern Bureau Chief, MUHAMMAD SABIU, examines the remote causes of the recent crisis that led to loss of lives and properties. The Waja and Lunguda communities were once under  the same province before political arrangement separated them. Findings revealed that since the arrangement, peace had eluded the two communities. After the boundary adjustment, the Wajas found themselves in Gombe state, while the Lunguda were in Adamawa state. This arrangement, according to Mathias Bulus, a Lunguda, could be said to be the real cause of the past as well as the present violence involving the two communities in recent years.   Inter-marriage Going down memory lane, Bulus said for several decades, the two communities lived in harmony, with members of both communities even coming together in marriage. He said the inter-marriage brought ‘temporary’ peace in the communities. Apart from that, Bulus also said youths from both communities sometimes organised football competitions and other social engagements and there was relative peace.  ‘Unfair’ boundary adjustment Despite the relative peace enjoyed by both communities, findings by the Nigerian Tribune revealed that boundary adjustment led to conflict. Both the Wajas and Lungudas laid claim to a large piece of farmland. According to Bulus, “the land in question, if you go there, you will know the place belongs to the people of Lunguda.  However, this view  was dismissed by an elder of the Waja community, who lives in Kaduna. The elder, who pleaded for anonymity, said the problem with the adjustment of the boundary is that those who did the boudary adjustment left a big darmacation and both communities believed that they owned it.  Recent hostilities/casualties Amid the tussle over the boundary adjustment, the past six years between both communities have been fraught with conflict. “Sometimes, we will not even know what is responsible as we will start seeing fire on houses or important places and before you say ‘Jack’, you will see houses being destroyed,” a youth of the community said. Also, a resident who was caught in the violence said he could not understand how the recent violence erupted as he just saw people running in different directions for safety. According to him, in the wake of the confusion, he saw shops and houses in flames.