Governor Ademola Adeleke of Osun State was missing in attendance as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) flag off campaign in Oyo State ahead of the forthcoming general election. The gubernatorial candidate of the PDP in Ogun State, Oladipupo Adebutu and his Lagos State counterpart, Olajide Adediran (Jandor) were also absent at the event which was held at Mapo Hall, Ibadan on Thursday. Recall that Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde was also absent during the swearing-in ceremony of Ademola Adeleke as the sixth elected governor of Osun State and second PDP governor in the southwest which was held in November 2022. Makinde is one of the five aggrieved governors of the PDP – dubbed G-5 governors, alongside Governor Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) and Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) who were present at the event – calling for the resignation and substitution of Iyorchia Ayu, PDP National Chairman with a southerner. However, the absence of Adeleke and some other gubernatorial candidates of the party in the southwest is believed to be a result of the crisis rocking the party. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy…  FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts THE Federal Government is putting final touches to all necessary mea- sures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally