Days after burying his father, popular skit maker, Isbea U, has paid tributes to the veteran actor, Kamal Adebayo, popularly known as Sir K, who died on Tuesday and was buried according to Islamic rites, describing him as his hero and best friend. The skit maker took to his social media page to eulogise his father who was a popular figure in the movie industry in the 90s and early 2000 and featured in over 100 movies. Isbae U, in his tribute, said he was yet to come to terms with the fact that he has become an orphan, saying that as much as he is scared of what the future holds for him, he submitted to the will of God and chose to thank Him for joyful and sad moments in his life. “God you are the Most High, I know you have your reasons, and I trust You Ya Allah, so I will always say Alhamdullilahi. Dear Allah, I beg you with everyone and everything that makes you happy on earth, I plead with you to help forgive my dad’s sins and grant him paradise. Rest in peace Sir K, rest in peace my favorite warrior, rest in peace Shankar Babu “Inna lillahi wa inna ilayhi raji’un” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy… FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts  The Federal Government is putting the final touches to all necessary measures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state, and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally LEADING rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, on Tuesday addressed the controversial move by the nation’s secret police to arrest and detain the embattled Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele… EDITORIAL: CBN’s New Cash Withdrawal Limits