The Court of Appeal Owerri Division has dismissed the bid by the Abia State chapter of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to stop the All Progressives Congress (APC) from fielding its governorship candidate, Chief Ikechi Emenike, in the March 2023 poll. The court ruled against the appeal filed by the Abia ruling party challenging the validity of the governorship primary of the APC that produced Emenike. The Abia PDP, which claimed that the primary lacked due process, filed suit No. FHC/UM/CS/158/2022, PDP Vs INEC, APC, Emenike. The plaintiff also included Uche Ogah among the defendants following his claim that he won a purported governorship primary. But the case was on November 15, 2022, adjourned sine die by Justice Evelyn Anyadike following a judicial notice that an appeal challenging the validity of the APC primary was pending at the Court of Appeal Abuja. Justice Anyadike had reasoned that proceeding with the case could lead to conflicting judgment since a court of coordinate jurisdiction had already delivered a verdict which the defendants appealed against. Dissatisfied with the decision of the Federal High Court Umuahia, PDP had gone to the Appellate Court in Owerri, claiming that it was denied the right to a fair hearing. But in its judgment in Appeal No. CA/OW/473/2022: PDP Vs INEC, APC, Emenike, Ogah, the Court of Appeal held that the trial court was right in adjourning the case instituted by Abia PDP sine die. In the judgment delivered by Justice Rita Pemu, the appellate court affirmed that the APC gubernatorial primary conducted in Umuahia on May 26, 2022, was upheld, reiterating that Emenike remained the duly elected candidate of the party for the forthcoming election. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… The website, which gives back part of the money spent on shopping is now available in Nigeria