Operatives of the Bauchi State Police Command have arrested a 40-year-old Nuhu Umar Usman of Dangarfa Village via Kyata, Burra District in Ningi LGA of Bauchi State for allegedly killing one of his wives. Preliminary investigation by the police revealed that the suspect, who had two wives and six children slept in the same room with his now-deceased wife that night amidst an altercation between his wives, to the extent that the eldest son threatened to harm his father. Prior to that incident, Tribune Online learnt that the eldest son had threatened the father which made the suspect load his Dane gun and kept beside him throughout the night, allegedly waiting for a possible intruder. The investigation further revealed that ”on the 28th December 2022 at about 0200hrs while he was sleeping in the same room with his wife, Ladi Nuhu ‘aged 37 years of the same address, she went out of the room to ease herself. ”On her way coming back to the room, the husband woke up and armed himself with a Dane gun upon hearing suspicious move close to his room and directly fired at her in the stomach, as a result, she was grievously injured. ”The victim was rushed to the General Hospital, Burra, but certified dead by a medical doctor. ”The Commissioner of Police, CP Aminu Alhassan directed that the suspect be charged to court on completion of the investigation.” In another development, the Command also arrested Amina Guguwa aged 50 years of Miya village for killing her co-wife. The information available to the command revealed that on the 01st January 2023 Amina Koli (deceased)  aged 60 years of Miya town was strangled to death by her co-wife following a physical confrontation. Amina Guguwa ‘, the suspect was alleged to have used force on the victim by strangulating her neck tight as a result of which she died on the spot.  On receiving the report, a team of detectives were drafted and rushed to the scene where they evacuated the victim to the General Hospital, Kafin Madaki in Ganjuwa LGA for a post-mortem examination where she was certified dead by a medical doctor. The investigation is in progress, after which the suspect will be charged to court for prosecution. The Command also arrested one Babangida Adamu aged 25 years alongside his cohort, Abubakar Adamu (AKA Ubale) aged 22 years all of Papa hamlet via Darazo LGA, Bauchi. On the 20th of December 2022, Ibrahim Ahmadu aged 23 years went to spray insecticide on his father’s Sesame seed (Ridi) farm and was allegedly killed by the suspects. Investigation revealed that on Monday evening, 20th December 2022, the suspects trespassed into the sesame seed (Ridi) farm with the intent to steal the farm produce. After the suspects finished packing all the farm produce and were about to pack it into the sack, the victim who was sent by his father to spray insecticide appeared on the farm, approached and confronted the suspects.