Staying quiet but allowing his acting and movie roles speak for him appear to be the staying power secret of actor, Olumide Oworu, who is currently being embraced by the spotlight. As one of the cast on the Netflix series, Far From Home, Oworu opened up about his role on the new project, saying he never knew he could be picked for the role when he auditioned. Speaking further about what got him the job and how he has continued to keep himself going, the graduate of Mass Communication from Babcock University  stated during the premiere in Lagos that as a young actor, it was an eye-opening experience for him to be on set with some of the screen veterans who shaped his growing up. “I think a lot of good things have been happening to me and my career in the past few years and I am grateful to God and good people in my life. Being on Netflix’s Far From Home series was something that I can’t really explain the feeling because it felt so real to be true. “The fact is that I enjoyed every bit of my stay while the shoot lasted. I am glad that people will see my originality and learn a lot of lessons, especially the young ones like me. I like the fact that my acting skills speak for me all the time,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy…  FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts The Federal Government is putting the final touches to all necessary measures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state, and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally LEADING rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, on Tuesday addressed the controversial move by the nation’s secret police to arrest and detain the embattled Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele…