SMARTPHONE brand, TECNO, has announced the launch of its highly-anticipated PHANTOM-X2 to the delight of its global patrons. The latest offering is one of the two exciting product releases at TECNO’s double-header event in the United Arab Emirates, recently. The other was the MEGABOOK S1 laptop. The company, in a release issued by its Public Relations firm in Nigeria, Teksight Edge, described the  launch as providing the smart-phone brand the  opportunity  to showcase to its teeming customers some of its cutting-edge technology, while also providing the platform for  such customers to learn more about the features and capabilities of those products. “The PHANTOM X2 is designed to be a game-changer in the smart-phone industry, especially with its range of impressive features that make it a top choice for fashion enthusiasts, v-loggers, and content creators, desirous of  a high-quality, feature-packed smart-phone. “With this device, you would not need to walk around with a digital camera as the new PHANTOM X2 meets that need for you,” the company added. The smart-phone brand has also announced a consumer promotion that would enable customers, pre-ordering the new offering before January 20, this year,  win different prizes.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials  The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 