As Nigerians welcome the New Year with hopes and dreams for what it will bring, Vincent Kuraun, Ifedayo Ogunyemi and Funmilayo Aremu speak with some citizens of the country about their hopes and expectations. The year 2022 was a difficult year for most Nigerians. Even the government was dazed by its innumerable onslaught that left the economy almost in ruins. Many businesses collapsed and common Nigerians struggled and only managed to keep themselves alive. The year also witnessed the mass migration of Nigerian youths otherwise called “Japa syndrome” due to the many difficulties plaguing the nation, ranging from acute unemployment occasioned by economic stagnation, banditry, kidnappings, foreign exchange issues and inflation, among others. It is no surprise that the nation’s Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI), according to data obtained from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), showed that about 63 per cent of people –133 million Nigerians out of an estimated population of 211 million– are in multidimensional poverty. But what fate awaits Nigerians in the new year? Will things get better or worse? Some Nigerians, who spoke with Sunday Tribune, expressed hope for an end to their suffering and a better life for them and their families.  We expect new approaching to solving Nigeria’s problem  —Mr Anderson Ezeibe, National President, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) By May 29 next year, a new government would have been in place and, as such, we expect a different approach entirely in dealing with trade union disputes because I can see that in this current dispensation that is rounding off, trade unions in the country did not find it so rosy with respect to trade dispute resolution. In the educational sector, as you know, we’ve had a lot of disruptions in the academic calendars of tertiary institutions. Almost all the staff unions that operate out of universities were on strike for about eight months. Polytechnic lecturers were on strike for about two weeks during the warning strike. In 2021, we had a strike for over two months. Colleges of Education staff members were also on strike for a while. I know that the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian University (SSANU) was also on strike and the Non-Academic Staff Union of University (NASU) was on strike. It was really a harvest of strikes in the year that just ended. What is worrying is the fact that the issues leading to these disruptions have not been completely resolved. We know that the university sector still sits on fragile peace, the same with the polytechnic sector and the colleges of education.  The renegotiation process that commenced in 2017 between the government and these unions, as we speak, has not been resolved and the implication is that conditions of service of workers in the sector have not been reviewed despite the terrible economic situation in the country. So, next year, we hope that a new administration will bring a new perspective and approach to problem-solving, one that will engender partnership, one that will understand in totality what education and academics is all about and the real challenges in our tertiary education sector. That is our expectation. We don’t know who is going to become the next president or party that will form the government. But like I said, our expectation is that the one that will be coming will be able to learn from the challenges of this present one so that we don’t have the kind of disruptions that we had in 2022. Unfortunately, the kind of political system that we practice in the country does not really put one in a very good position to assess, in very objective terms, the ability or the capabilities of candidates or the parties that are contesting for office or to form the next government. On the surface, if you’re going by what they are saying, which was also what was stated before, they all mean well. And every politician in Nigeria means well at the time of seeking office. What happens after they get to the office, you can see different matters entirely. So, unfortunately, as I said, we cannot rely on the strength of what the candidates are saying now to judge what they are going to do. It’s really very difficult. And we are not politicians canvassing for anybody. All we can do at this time, as trade unions, is to appeal to any of them that becomes president of this country or any party that forms the next government to give education the pride of place because no country can develop beyond its educational developments, it is not possible. Education should occupy the pride of place in whatever campaigns or plans they have for this country. 