Mouka, Nigeria’s foremost manufacturer of mattresses and other bedding products, has celebrated families with babies born on New Year’s Day 2023 in furtherance of its commitment to adding value to life. Mouka participated in celebratory events to welcome the newborns across 13 public healthcare facilities in Lagos, Oyo, Ogun, Edo, Imo, Enugu, Rivers, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Kaduna, Kano, and Plateau States. In Lagos, the market leader in the Nigerian sleep industry joined the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr (Mrs) lbijoke Sanwo-Olu, at selected public health facilities across the metropolis, during which Mouka presented gifts to mothers of the first babies at the Eti-Osa Maternal and Child Centre [MCC], Lekki-Ajah, Ebute-Meta General Hospital and Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ayinke House, Ikeja all in Lagos State. The gifts comprised pillows, Dino mats and Dreamtime Baby mattresses. The Special Guest of Honour, First Lady of Lagos State, Dr Mrs Claudiana Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, was accompanied by the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat, Dr. Abayomi Majekodunmi, Commissioner for Health in Lagos State, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Lagos State, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye and other top Government functionaries on her visit to the selected hospitals as part of the Annual program to celebrate babies born on New Year’s day in Lagos State. Baby Iromain Ayinde, a Female who weighed 2.9 kg delivered at exactly 12:02 a.m by Mrs. Iromain was the first baby of the Year at the Ebute-Meta General Hospital, while the first babies of the year at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja were triplets delivered through the Caesarian Section by Mrs. Olufoye. The first child, a female, weighing 2.2kg was delivered at exactly 12:07 a.m.; the second child, a male who weighed 2kg was delivered at 2:08a.m while the third child, a male who weighed 2.1kg was delivered by 12:09 a.m. Dr. Sanwo-Olu said, welcoming newborns is a symbolic and significant event that brings forth the assurances that human heritage is carried on to the next generation. ‘’The gift of a new baby is a priceless one from God Almighty and as with a lot of cultures, across the world, the birth of a child brings good fortune to society. We are here today not just to celebrate new life but also to seek opportunities to make a difference in the lives of the people who need our assistance. Bearing in mind always that our show of love, kindness and compassion is only an extension of gratitude to our maker for the same grace granted to us’’. While congratulating the parents of the newly born, the First Lady commended all philanthropists; as well as corporate bodies like Mouka especially the Management of the foremost manufacturer of mattresses and other bedding products headed by Mr Femi Fapohunda who was a special guest during the event for having been consistently involved in this form of partnerships toward complementing the vision and efforts of the State Government in the health sector over the years. Commenting on the initiative, the Managing Director of Mouka, Mr. Femi Fapohunda, said as the promoter of quality sleep, the brand continues to advocate for a healthy sleep culture, especially from childhood. This is why Mouka donated Dreamtime mattresses, specially designed with children in mind, to the first babies of the year. The Dreamtime mattress is water-resistant yet breathable to keep the body cool and comfortable through the night. It is also made with the right foam density to keep children comfortable while sleeping.  Fapohunda pointed out that quality sleep is associated with healthy physical and cognitive development in children, which is why it associates itself with the worthy programme of the Lagos First Lady, bringing succour to families of first babies. Earlier in his remarks, the commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, appreciated the wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr (Mrs) Claudiana Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu for sustaining the Annual First Baby of the Year event, stating that the State Government and corporate organizations like Mouka have been very supportive and committed to the welfare and wellbeing of mothers and children, especially with regards to quality, efficient and accessible health service delivery in Lagos State. ‘’This event is one of the special events through which the Lagos State Government and corporate organizations are showing commitment and support to the wellbeing of mothers and children and I am proud of the Lagos State Health family for doing wonderfully well in providing quality healthcare service delivery to the populace’’, the Commissioner said. Expressing their joy, the parents of a set of triplets born in LASUTH, Mr and Mrs Olufoye, commended Mouka for the valuable gift items. Last year, the socially responsible company also partnered with the Office of the First Lady of Lagos State to celebrate the first babies of the year in Lagos. Similar presentations also took place simultaneously by Mouka at the Olabisi Onabanjo Teaching Hospital in Shagamu, Ogun State, the University College Hospital [UCH], Ibadan, the Edo State Specialist Hospital in Benin City, Edo State as well as other select public healthcare facilities in Imo, Enugu, Rivers, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Kaduna, Kano, and Plateau States.