The final episode of the blind auditions of The Voice Nigeria, Season Four, will air today on  StarTimes. The music talent hunt show, which started December 24, has seen scores of budding talents come on stage to woo the coaches’ approval into their respective teams. The coaches would select twelve talents to make up their teams. The last episode of the blind audition will air on ST Nollywood Plus and ST Nollywood channels at 5:30 pm and 7 pm, respectively, on Saturday. Last weekend, coach Praiz welcomed more talented members to his team than other coaches, including Naeto C, Waje, and Niyola. Coaches Waje, and Naeto C, gained two more talents each, while coach Niyola gained one more talent. Season Four already gaining massive traction among TV audience and generating thousands of comments on social media, is expected to get hotter as it enters The Knockouts stage next week. From returning coach, Waje to Niyola, Praiz, and Naeto C, the show has been receiving accolades with an array of talents that have displayed their depth and raw abilities to conquer the world of music with the assistance of their coaches. “By now, viewers should have these terms in their musical vocabulary: lower register, vocal dexterity, texture, nerves, versatility, off-timing, seasoned singer, rich tone, range, emotion… these judges have schooled us. I love Waje’s constructive reviews so much. She listens to your voice; that’s enough reason to choose her as my coach,” a fan, Anuoluwapo Tenibiaje said. “Their voices send chills down the spine. The competition this season would be very tough,” Chinda Samuel, another fan, remarked. “The final episode of the blind stage is expected to be mind-blowing. Many people are looking forward to it because some talents made it to the next round. At the same time, some were unlucky, and this episode is the last opportunity for the last set of talents with unique voices to get a chance to compete with other talents already in the competition. StarTimes viewers should expect a fascinating weekend as other first-rated programmes have been lined up alongside The Voice Nigeria,” Lazarus Ibeabuchi,” PR Manager, StarTimes Nigeria, said.  ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  