Stanbic IBTC Bank, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings, has rewarded 77 customers with cash prizes in the ongoing Reward4Saving Promo 2.0 during its recent quarterly draws. Ten winners walked away with N100,000 each, and seven winners claimed N1 million each from the seven regions where winners were selected. The winners of this quarterly draw emerged across seven geopolitical zones of  the South-South, South-West, South-East, North-West, North-Central as well as the Mainland and Island areas of Lagos State. Funke Amobi, Country Head, People and Culture, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, expressed delight over the willingness and commitment of customers to save for their financial freedom. She assured that the organisation would continue to push for improved living standards for its current and prospective customers through the Reward4Saving promo. She said, “It gives us great joy to leave positive marks in the lives of our customers, and we are keeping our promise of making the promo bigger and better. “The promo is still ongoing, and I advise Nigerians to take advantage of the opportunity by keeping a balance of N10,000 in their accounts for 30 days to qualify for the promo before it ends in March.” Themed “Bigger and Better”, the Reward4Saving 2.0 will run till March 2023 and more winners will walk away with cash prizes ranging from N100,000 to N2 million. The bank said the promo remains open to new and existing customers who can qualify for the monthly and quarterly draws by opening a Stanbic IBTC account or an @ease wallet through the Stanbic IBTC mobile app. Customers can also visit the Stanbic IBTC website or any Stanbic IBTC bank branch or an @ease agent.   YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria… Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 