The just ended year may have been a troubled one for Afrobeat singer, Davido, but he surely knows how to pamper himself to end the year in style. Information gathered revealed that the singer, who returned to stage performance at the closing ceremony of the FIFA World Cup in Qatar after the loss of his son, Ifeanyi has splashed $200,000( N149,000,000) on his new piece of diamond necklace. A video of the new necklace which has OBO boldly encrusted on it surfaced online few days ago as many fans of the singer said Davido deserves to be happy again after going through a difficult phase. It was observed that the Emerald custom piece with over 70cts is ready to be delivered to Davido and it is worth $200,000. Meanwhile, Davido it was learnt will not be returning to full music and performances till March next year as he has hinted those who should know that he would be back bigger and stronger in 2023. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy…  FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts The Federal Government is putting the final touches to all necessary measures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state, and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally LEADING rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, on Tuesday addressed the controversial move by the nation’s secret police to arrest and detain the embattled Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele…