The “School O’Clock” exercise, which aims to reduce the threat of out-of-school children, will restart on January 9, 2023, according to the Edo State Ministry of Education. This is stated in a statement that Dr. Oni Ekhosuehi, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, has signed on behalf of Dr. Joan Oviawe, the Commissioner for Education. “The Edo State Ministry of Education wishes to inform school owners, school administrators, parents, guardians, and the general public that the official date of second term resumption as contained in the 2022/2023 harmonized school calendar remains Monday, January 9, 2023. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy… FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts The Federal Government is putting the final touches to all necessary measures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state, and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed…  Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally LEADING rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, on Tuesday addressed the controversial move by the nation’s secret police to arrest and detain the embattled Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele… EDITORIAL: CBN’s New Cash Withdrawal Limits As a follow-up to its redesign of the N200, N500, and N1000 banknotes, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recently announced a new policy that mandates deposit money banks and other financial institutions to ensure that… 