At the sidelines of the kick-off of the re-election campaign of the Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, speaks on why his principal deserves to be re-elected by the people of the state.  Your principal is flagging off his campaign for a second term in office. Are you not afraid that the jinx in Oyo State that no governor would serve a second term, which the immediate past governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi broke with his re-election in 2015, may be back in place? There is nothing to be afraid of. Governor ‘Seyi Makinde has performed excellently well in the last three years and seven months and the people of Oyo State know that he has served them well. They will re-elect him.  You sound quite confident, but what about the jinx that… What jinx? In only 43 months, the administration has made more impact on the state than what the previous administration achieved in eight years. Across all sectors, the governor has recorded major achievements, which have direct impact on the electorate. These are the same people that vote during elections and the reasons they refused to re-elect people in the past were because they didn’t perform up to expectations. In the case of Governor Makinde, he has exceeded expectations and the people of Oyo State know this fact. Only recently, the governor emerged as Silverbird Television’s Man of the Year 2022. That is one award that is always keenly contested and people are made to vote. The governor defeated his colleague-governors and captains of industry to win that accolade and I am sure the people of the state can attest to the fact that the honour is well-deserved.  What are some of the achievements that make you sound so confident, because the opposition parties in the state are said to be planning another coalition like the one that brought in the governor in 2019? What coalition? Have you not read Isaiah 8:10 where the Bible says “take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak the word, but it will not stand, for God is with us?” The reality is that whatever device is being made to unseat Makinde is not in the interest of Oyo State people. And if you may recall, the governor said in a recent interview that his coalition is with the people of the state. If the people of Oyo State, who can see the giant strides that are being made in infrastructure development, education, health and the expansion of the economy, do not say that they have had enough of Makinde, then anyone talking about a coalition against him is wasting his time.  So, what achievements will the governor campaign with?  Look at the four pillars on which this government is rested upon – Education, Health Security and Economic expansion. The governor’s excellent performance can be easily seen. It is easy for anyone to say what and what is happening in different sectors. When you look at the infrastructure sector alone, you would think that this probably is the only thing the governor is doing, with different inter-city, inter-town roads being opened up, constructed or rehabilitated. In under four years, the Makinde administration has built/or is still building roads to connect all five zones of Oyo State. Ibadan has been connected to OkeOgun through Iseyin-Moniya Road; Oyo is being connected to OkeOgun through Oyo-Iseyin Road, OkeOgun is being connected to Ogbomoso through Iseyin-Fapote-Ogbomoso Road, while Eruwa is being connected to Oke through the limited rehabilitation of Igboora-Iganna Road. Let me tell you clearly that in eight years of the previous government, the only inter-zone road that was attempted was the Ido-Eruwa Road, and it was abandoned.  Are you saying the governor will be re-elected only based on what he has done in terms of infrastructure? No, you can’t narrow his achievements only to infrastructure. Governor Makinde’s achievements transcend infrastructure. When you talk about education, you will see that Oyo SUBEB is one of the most active agencies in this country. It is the agency that takes care of the early education up to junior secondary school. Immediately Governor Makinde got into office in 2019, he paid arrears of counterpart funds that the previous government failed to pay and this has helped the agency to build at least close to 60 schools in three years. In all, over 500 education infrastructure projects have been completed by this administration.