With the rising food prices in Nigeria, NCHETACHI CHUKWUAJAH, in this report, analyses the factors that pose challenges to the food sufficiency and security drive of Nigeria. Global post-COVID economic contraction has persisted as nations struggle to adapt to new economic conditions. In Nigeria, the situation is no different. It has impacted virtually every aspect of the economy with surging inflation, especially the food sufficiency and security drive of the Federal Government. In August 2022, the country’s inflation rate reached a 17-year high of 20.23 percent. Since then, it has continued to rise, reaching 21.09 percent in October and 21.47 percent in November 2022. Recall that a few months ago, bread bakers, under the aegis of Premium Bakers Association of Nigeria (PBAN), increased the price of bread by 20 percent after a four-day strike over increasing prices of baking materials. The association, through its president, Emmanuel Onuorah, had noted that the materials for the baking business had more than doubled in price in the past few months. The situation is not different in other sectors that depend on grains such as wheat, maize, rice, etc, for their businesses. The situation has been exacerbated by many factors, including the depletion of Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserve, the protracted Russia-Ukraine war that has cut off grain exports from both countries, the increasing prices of petroleum resources, and the recent flooding of many food-producing states in Nigeria, among others. In the face of all these challenges, the Federal Government has consistently restated its commitment to ensuring food availability, sufficiency, and security. This it has done through various programmes, policies and even interventions by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Recall that on January 18, 2022, President Muhammadu Buhari unveiled 13 pyramids of 115,000 bags of 100kg paddy rice produced by rice farmers under the aegis of the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The well-attended event was organised to mark the association’s Rice Festival, the beginning of production for the 2021/2022 dry season and loan repayment to the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP).  President Buhari, the governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, and indeed all present at the rice pyramid unveiling ceremony opined that it was symbolic of the huge investment in the agriculture sector by the Buhari-led administration, especially through the ABP, which was launched in 2015, and the dividends thereof. They noted that with such quantity of rice on display, Nigerians are guaranteed food security and sufficiency, and assured that the high cost of rice and other staple foods in the country would soon come down. President Buhari had said, “The inauguration of these rice pyramids today is an indication that our country is making steady and assured progress towards self-sufficiency in food production, and it is my desired hope and expectation that other agricultural commodity associations that are yet to participate under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme will emulate the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria in supporting our administration’s drive for food self-sufficiency.” Emefiele had said the bank, through the ABP, had invested N1 trillion to support the farmers in achieving the feat. “As of the end of December 2021, we have financed 4,489,786 farmers who cultivated 5,300,411 hectares across 21 commodities through 23 Participating Financial Institutions in the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. “Today, rice production in Nigeria has increased to over 7.5 million metric tonnes annually. Prior to the introduction of ABP, the average production in Nigeria between 1999 and 2015 was less than four metric tonnes annually,” he said.