The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu has said there would be no postponement of the scheduled 2023 general elections. Yakubu made the vow on Wednesday while presenting the 2023 Voters Register to the leadership of the 18 political parties in the country. His declaration was on the heels of the claim that security challenges in states across the country could frustrate the conduct of the elections. He said: “The 2023 general elections will hold as scheduled. Any report to the contrary isn’t true.” The INEC Chairman announced that 93,469,008 eligible voters would exercise their franchise next month and in March for the presidential, National Assembly, governorship and State Assemblies.
Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nigeria Needs Stingy Leader To Develop — Obi THE standard-bearer of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 presidential poll, Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, said the country needs a stingy leader to develop in all sectors… Atiku Discusses Economy, Security With UK Government Officials The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has met with officials of the British government to discuss issues bordering on economy, security, and immigration among others that are likely to be of mutual interest if he is elected the president of Nigeria…  Dear Nigerians, Resident Doctors May Go On Nationwide Strike (See Details) The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has warned to go on a nationwide strike if the federal government does not meet its demands… What Makinde Must Do To Retain His Seat — Abdusalam, Ex-Oyo AG Aare Abdulsalam Abdullah, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State, in this interview with OLAWALE OLANIYAN, spoke about the chances of the re-election of Governor Seyi Makinde… Lagos Port Operator Increases Export Charges, Threatens Nigeria’s Export Promotion 2023: No one should nurse postponement, INEC Chairman vows The website, which gives back part of the money spent on shopping is now available in Nigeria