In this interview with WALE AKINSELURE, former deputy governor of Oyo State, Alhaji Hazeem Gbolarumi comments on the ‘Freedom Walk for Atiku’, held in Ibadan, flag off of the second term campaign of Governor Seyi Makinde, the G5 agitation and the state of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state.  You were not present at Thursday’s rally where your party man, Governor SeyiMakinde flagged off his second term campaign. Was that intentional? I was not invited. Why must I go where I was not invited?  You contested the governorship primary with Governor  Makinde and, at that event, it looked like you had embraced reconciliation and were now on the same page with the governor. One would have thought you would have attended the rally of your fellow party man. I was not invited to their programme. We are all PDP; we are doing our own. He has not said he has defected, so we are working for the party and we believe in the principle of the party leaders.  But, Oloye Jumoke Akinjide, with whom you staged the Freedom Walk for Atiku the day before the Makinde event was present. She probably had her own reason for attending. Probably, she was invited and she believed she can be there. I cannot speak for her, anyway. She is mature; she has every right to use her discretion she does.  You organised the Freedom Walk with Atiku last Wednesday. Were the goals for organizing the rally achieved?  We thank God that the goals were achieved. What we planned to do was to sensitise our people and let them know that Atiku Abubakar is coming, that Atiku will be president of this country; that they should come out en masse and vote for PDP presidential candidate for the forthcoming election and we succeeded. We have scored ourselves and the people of Oyo State have scored us. I think our achievement, that day, was not less than 90 percent.  Is that walk enough? What more do you plan to do to convince the electorate to vote Atiku? The next is to go for house-to-house campaigns, town hall meetings, room-to-room campaign, market-to-market campaign. Also, the principal himself and the presidential campaign council are coming to Ibadan, this month. We are preparing ahead that visit and a much more mammoth crowd will witness Atiku’s campaign in Oyo State.  Just like the governor took charge of proceedings from you the last time Atiku visited Ibadan, how would you ensure a similar situation happening again when Atiku visits? I will still be okay because I believe the more the merrier. If genuinely the governor is with Atiku, it is good. He is the governor of the state and he is more or less the leader of the party in the state, according to principle, though it is not in the constitution of the party. We all appreciate and acknowledge that. If he has come in good faith, no problem. 