 Speaking during the opening of the two-day workshop in Akure, the state capital, the Special Adviser on Union Matters and Special Duties, Mr Dare Aragbaiye, said the workshop was apt in acquiring monitoring and evaluation skills which were fast becoming relevant in the world, especially in terms of project management. He said the workshop would expose the MDAs to a better understanding of their project scope and the impact it should have on society.  According to him, the state government is working towards building the capacity of the MDAs and different sectors to know how to access available grants. He noted that workers in the state do not have knowledge of how to access available grants, but said knowing how to access grants would enable the state to have access to more support in terms of grants and friendly loans for infrastructural development. The Director-General of the Performance and Project Implementation Monitoring Unit (PPIMU), Babajide Akeredolu, said mapping has been carried out by the state government to identify all projects and reform for prioritization. Akeredolu explained that the training would help the MDAs understand the objective of the government on Project Prioritization and properly structure projects within the state to meet international standards and also collect relevant documents related to the projects. According to him, “The preliminary findings of the mapping and a literature review of the delivery units approach including prioritization approaches enabled to propose a set of criteria for the prioritization of the projects have been submitted by the Ondo State Ministries, Departments and Agencies.  Ondo Head of Service, Pastor Pastor Kayode Ogundele, said the era of abandoning government programmes and policies was gone. Pastor Ogundele said the training was for the officers to have adequate knowledge of how to prioritise projects in the state.
READ FROM ALSO NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Discover Effective Natural Solution That Permanently Eradicate Hepatitis B&C, Fatty liver etc. Newly Improved organic Solution to Cure Every Liver Related Diseases. 