The Chief Edwin Clark-led Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has described as a shame, the attempt to label the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, a terrorism sponsor. Recall that the Department of State Service (DSS) had recently sought an ex-parte court order to arrest him over his alleged sponsorship of terrorism, a request rejected by the court. In a statement issued on Monday, the SLMBF, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to put his house in order, and save the country nation from repeated, unwarranted national embarrassments. It said the action of the DSS is not only a travesty of the nation’s judiciary, but also a grave disservice to the Nigerian state, and a mortification of the nation’s image. The statement added: “It is unthinkable that the DSS would recklessly and carelessly accuse Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, of financing terrorism and involvement in economic crimes of national security dimension. “This is not only shameful but a disgrace to the Buhari administration and the Nation. And capable of unsettling the socioeconomic tractions of the country. “What is the evidence that the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, is involved in terrorism financing? “If the allegations against the CBN Governor are genuine, why didn’t the DSS present its findings to the President for consideration and necessary action? “It is common knowledge that the Governor the Central Bank, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has been carrying out Mr. President’s directives and instructions religiously. We wonder whether it is those instructions given to him by the President, which he carries out that make him to be a terrorism sponsor? Or there are personal actions and activities he has carried out without the president’s approval and instruction? “The CBN Governor who has been doing everything to salvage the nation’s economy with several intervention schemes in agriculture and SMEs, etc, to ensure that individuals, households and businesses across all sectors of the economy receive support to sustain their operations and livelihoods, especially during COVID and even in post-COVID era.  “It was thwarting that the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, practically ‘apple-polished’ certain sections of the country with the apex bank’s intervention schemes to boost production of farm commodities, providing smallholder farmers with inputs, in kind and cash, particularly in the Northern States that supposedly have comparative advantage to produce rice, maize, wheat, cotton, tomato, roots and tubers like cassava, potatoes, yam, etc. “The CBN interventions have reportedly led to huge drop in rice importation, in recent years; which has been publicized widely as one the key achievements of the Buhari administration. Sadly, the same Godwin Emefiele is now being labeled terrorism sponsor. What a shame!” The forum expressed bemusement that Yusuf Bichi (the Director General of the Department of State Services), and his backers, presumed all citizens have been conquered. It recalled: “Allegedly acting on a petition, the DSS filed a secret suit at the Federal High Court, Abuja, on 7 December, under Section 66 of the Terrorism Prevention and Prohibition Act, 2022 to request a court order for Mr. Emefiele’s arrest and detention for 60 days, in the first instance. “But, the respected judge, Justice John Tsoho, who is the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Abuja, in his ruling on 9th December 2022, rejected the application on the grounds that the DSS failed to provide sufficient evidence to warrant the issuance of an arrest warrant against Mr. Emefiele.” SMBLF applauded the courage and bravery of the judge and called on President Buhari to sack the DSS boss,