During a recent conversation held virtually with stakeholders to seek ways to mitigate current challenges in the natural gas sector, Nobert Shialsuk, the Executive Director, Brio Group, shared his thoughts on how Nigeria can be a leading producer of natural gas and how majority of its citizens can have access to the essential commodity, among other issues relating to the natural gas sector. NURUDEEN ALIMI brings the excerpts:  How does Nigeria’s gas industry fit into the context of the world’s race to net-zero emissions by 2050? Coming off COP 26, Nigeria re-emphasised its commitment to ending climate change and also submitted the nationally determined commitment towards ending global warming. Since then, Nigeria has declared a ‘Decade of Gas’ which has defined the next frontier of Nigeria’s oil and gas sector. There are basically two objectives that the government wants to achieve which are to make Nigeria both a leading producer and consumer of gas. Nigeria has over 206 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of gas and another 600Tcf in probable reserves. So, Nigeria is a major gas country. One of the policy thrusts of the government is introducing natural gas vehicles and also gas to Nigerian homes and pushing for conversions from firewood and charcoal to gas as domestic fuel. This is the direction that the world is going because by 2050, natural gas and renewables are expected to drive over 50 – 60 percent of primary energy consumption in the world. So, the future is gas and renewables, which means Nigeria is going in the right direction.  What are some of the challenges that Nigeria faces in its effort to deepen the domestic gas market? Let me address the four As of accessibility, affordability, availability, and awareness which are the challenges of energy access in Africa. Africa is energy poor. We are dealing with the issue of biomass. Close to 80 percent of rural homes still rely on firewood and about 35 percent of the urban area also rely on firewood. Let us start with availability. If you want to make Nigeria a leading consumer of natural gas, you must first make it available. Making natural gas available means deepening gas pipelines. Getting the distribution pipelines to every nook and cranny of Nigeria. If you look at the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) pipeline, this is laudable because it will open up the hinterland and deepen gas availability. For liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) also, you have to make the product available. The domestic gas (DOMGAS) project of NLNG has deepened LPG availability. The next issue to be addressed is accessibility. People need to have access to these products. The cylinders have to be accessible. If you want someone to ride a natural gas vehicle that wasn’t built that way from the factory, the person needs to have the conversion kits. For LPG, it simply means providing cylinders for homes to be able to access this product. These are key policy areas that government should focus on. I have talked with the leadership of the mid-stream and downstream infrastructure fund and this is one area they want to address. The Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) is spot on by introducing the midstream and downstream gas infrastructure fund to plug the infrastructure gap in the country and drive accessibility.  The third and most important challenge to overcome in transitioning Africa to cleaner fuels is affordability. For the past year, LPG prices have gone up. A study by African Clean Cooking Alliance that was carried out between 2020 and 2021 assessed Nigerian homes across Nigeria and estimated that Nigerian homes spent between N2, 000 and N3, 000 per month. Roll back to 2015 in the study that was carried out by KPMG, that study showed that Nigerians who were using LPG were willing to spend N2, 000. In 2010 – 2015, the average price has been between N2, 000 and N3, 000 per cylinder. Now, LPG is at N10, 000. Affordability is a major hindrance; people cannot afford conversion kits. Government has to find a way to make that conversion kit available. If you made the conversion kit available, over time consumption will help grow the market and aid cost recovery. The Nigeria mid-stream and downstream gas infrastructure fund is meant to appropriate 0.5 percent of the levy on the consumption of petroleum and gas products. This means people are already paying for gas infrastructure. So, I don’t see why the government cannot provide these conversion kits to people because the mechanism for recovering the cost has been provided for in the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). Similarly, the cylinder is between N20,000 and N30,000. The mimimum wage in Nigeria is N30, 000, how many Nigerians can afford to buy the cylinders? The fourth and most important issue is awareness. It is known to all of us that there is a low level of education in the country and people are not necessarily aware of how efficient LPG is or whether it is a better fuel with less impact on the environment than firewood and their health because indoor smoke is a major health hazard. Using kerosene or firewood indoors has many health hazards and, on the environment, due to tree felling. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation, Nigeria has lost half a million hectares of land to deforestation. A lot of education is required. LPG is a safe fuel to use as long as you use it right. You need to create awareness of government schemes. 