Spiritual head and founder of Inri Evangelical Spiritual Church with headquarters in Lagos, Primate Elijah Ayodele has warned Nigerians not to be too optimistic about the nation’s economy in the New Year, saying that the economy would not be buoyant. Primate Ayodele who is noted for his predictions stated this while speaking with Sunday Tribune. According to him, “The economy of the nation will not be buoyant. Nigeria will face further economic challenges. The Federal Government will increase Value Added Tax (VAT). Many state governors will find it difficult to pay workers their salaries. There will also be global economic issues. Some banks in the country will be in crises. Even the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, will be enmeshed in various issues.” Speaking about the nation’s political terrain, the cleric stated that the Labour Party will also be enmeshed in various crises, just as he cautioned the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, to manage the internal crises in his party. “The Labour Party will have its crises. Also, Atiku Abubakar should manage the crises within the PDP well. But I must also say that the G5 integrity group will not make any impact in 2023 except they remain where they are. Yet, they will betray one another. Many big trees will fall in 2023. “Also, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, should know that the people who have surrounded him will betray him. That betrayal will shock him.  Restructuring will not see the light of day. Some political aspirants will die before the election.” On the nation’s security challenges, Ayodele stated that “another coup will occur in one of the African countries. In Nigeria, security agents in the warfront will protest. There will be massive protest in 2024. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PICTORIAL EXPLAINER: How To Identify Fake New Naira Notes The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released security features to help identify fake new naira notes. According to CBN’s template, the Security features to look out for are the following… Ondo Councils’ Workers Shut Down Assembly Over LG Autonomy LOCAL government workers under the aegis of Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ondo, on Tuesday, stormed the State House of Assembly, threatening a showdown with the lawmakers over the signing of local government autonomy…  FG To Discontinue Cash Withdrawal From Public Accounts The Federal Government is putting the final touches to all necessary measures to stop cash withdrawal from federal, state, and local government accounts. The Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Modibbo Hamman Tukur, revealed… Reps Probe Crude Oil Sales Over $2.4bn Revenue Loss The House of Representatives on Tuesday unveiled plans to investigate the allegation bothering on the alleged loss of over $2.4 billion in revenue accruing from the illegal sale of 48 million barrels of crude oil export from 2014 till date… Emefiele/DSS Tango: Falana Asks Judiciary To Treat Civil Liberty Cases Equally LEADING rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana, on Tuesday addressed the controversial move by the nation’s secret police to arrest and detain the embattled Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele…