The Kogi branch of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has directed customers with less than N500,000 to their banks to swap them with new currencies. A visit to the banks office along Hassan Katsina road, zone 8 in Lokoja on Friday showed that those with less than 500,000 are being turned back and advised to visit their banks. This has drastically reduced the number of visitors to the Apex bank branch in Lokoja. The Kogi Branch controller, Ahmed Sule told our correspondent that the bank is only attending to those with N500,000 and above while those with less amount have been directed to visit their banks to swap their money. He however said, the swapped note would be credited to the owners’ accounts, and no cash would be given either at CBN or other Banks. He urged customers to visit the Apex bank’s website, download the form, fill it and submit it in case of those with 500,000 and above while others with less amount are advised to submit the completed forms to their respective banks and their accounts will be credited. For those entertaining fear of falling into the wrong hands, the controller said “there was nothing to fear about as the link have been certified safe and no one will be shortchanged whatsoever”. He also said that the forms are now available as against the situation earlier in the week when it was not available for download. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike  Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…  Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I dont know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022… 