Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal on Friday said he regretted campaigning for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last election that saw Muhammadu Buhari emerged as president. “Nothing is working under the APC government. “I am sorry I campaigned for the party. “I have now seen the light which is Peter Obi and have thus repented,” Mr Lawal said on Channels Television’s Politics Today. Mr Lawal made the comment while analysing Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi’s chances in the imminent February presidential polls. He believes Peter Obi’s growing popularity in least expected areas will be a deciding factor in the forthcoming presidential election. “Labour Party is gaining momentum in unexpected areas; it is taking the APC and PDP by storm because they never initially factored Peter Obi into the political permutations,” he said. Nigerians have been lamenting the current economic woes under the APC-led government with less than 22 days to the poll. Some analysts believe, with the present situation in the country, there is strong indication that the result of the election may slightly have a negative impact on the ruling party if not addressed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…  Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 