The Supreme Court has adjourned the suit filed by some State governors to challenge the naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) until March 3. This comes a week after the court had adjourned the suit to February 22, to allow it consolidate all cases on the matter emanating from nine more States of the Federation seeking to be joined in the suit. A seven-member panel, led by Justice John Okoro, the apex court Wednesday, joined the attorneys-general of Katsina, Lagos, Ondo, Ogun, Ekiti, Cross River and Sokoto States as co-plaintiffs, while the Attorneys-General of Edo and Bayelsa  were joined as co-respondents, respectively. A total of sixteen states are now plaintiffs in the suit against the federal government, while the Edo and Bayelsa State Governments joined the Federal Government as defendants in the matter. During the proceedings on Wednesday, the Attorney General of Lagos, N. J Onigbanjo (SAN), in an application seeking an order of the court stopping the appearance of the AGF in the matter until the president complies with the order of the court to the effect that N200, N500 and N1000 notes be used together with the new naira notes. The Zamfara State Government, the third plaintiff in the matter filed an application praying the apex court to make an order setting aside the directive of the President in his February 16, broadcast, which limits the 15th February order of the court to only N200 notes. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…   Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I don’t know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022… 