Nigerian old-generation bank, First Bank of Nigeria Plc has said it will only accept cash deposits of ₦500, 000 below from its customers. In a press release obtained by TRIBUNE ONLINE, the Nigeria’s oldest bank said its branches will be open tomorrow, Saturday February 18 2023 to recieve old notes. “Dear Valued Customer, this is to inform you that our branches shall receive old notes up to a maximum of ₦500,000 (Five Hundred Thousand Naira) after registration on the CBN portal. “Please note that deposits of more than ₦500,000 (Five Hundred Thousand Naira) should be taken to the nearest CBN location,” the public notice read. Please note that deposits of more than N500,000 (Five Hundred Thousand Naira) should be taken to the nearest CBN location. In addition, our branches will be open tomorrow, Saturday 18 February 2023 to recieve old notes.#YouFirst — FirstBank Nigeria (@FirstBankngr) February 17, 2023  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…  Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday  Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I dont know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022…  