The Naira on Thursday exchanged at 461.10 to the dollar at the Investors and Exporters window. The figure represented an appreciation by 0.02 percent compared with the 461.17 it exchanged on Wednesday. The open indicative rate closed at N461.25 to the dollar on Thursday. An exchange rate of N462 to the dollar was the highest rate recorded within the day’s trading before it settled at N461.10. The naira sold for as low as 439.96 to the dollar within the day’s trading. A total of 40.24 million dollars was traded at the official Investors and Exporters Window on Thursday. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Sexually transmitted infections, left untreated, can cause cancer, infertility, blindness —Obunge A  medical expert, Professor Orikomaba Obunge, says that sexually transmitted infections (STIs) remain a big problem in Nigeria and some instance when left untreated can lead to long-term irreversible outcomes like cancer, infertility and blindness…   MC Oluomo: Remove Lagos REC now, Atiku tells INEC The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos, Olusegun Agbaje, over allegations of being partisan and compromised…  Feb 25: Peter Obi is a man I’ll be proud to call president – Mr Macaroni Ahead of the forthcoming presidential election, popular Nigerian social activist and skit maker, Debo Adebayo, popularly called Mr Macaroni has said he would be proud to see the flag-bearer of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi emerge president…  INEC appeals against Osun election petition tribunal judgement on 44 grounds The Independent National Electoral Commission has appealed against the judgement of Justice T. A. Kume led Election Petition Tribunal in Osun State on 44 grounds…  Scout reveals why Arsenal failed to sign Mbappe in 2013 Arsenal failed in an attempt to sign Kylian Mbappe in 2013, a former member of the club’s scouting team has revealed…  EDITORIAL: The increasing diphtheria deaths AMID the raging protests over scarce naira notes and fuel and as political campaigns dominate the public space, Nigerians may be ignoring a dangerous killer in town: diphtheria… 