The United States Government Exchange Alumni Association (USGEAA) has lamented the increasing cases of gender-based violence (GBV) across the country, calling on stakeholders to support the eradication of the menace in society. The Ekiti state coordinator of the alumni association, Kolawole Ayotunde who spoke during a capacity building on gender-based violence (prevention and response) for stakeholders in the state, especially first responders, explained that the alumni were determined to impact the society with the knowledge gained from the US towards the prevention of the menace. Participants at the training were; market women, security agents, women groups, members of the sexual referral centre, lawyers and other relevant stakeholders in the state. Ayotunde added that the organization was worried about the increasing cases of GBV in society and would do everything possible to prevent it and boost the capacity of first responders whenever there is a case, noting that GBV is a threat to human existence. He said, “The organization is for those who go to the US for sponsored programmes and they want the alumni to come back and impact the people positively in having a better environment. “If you look at the GBV and the programme here in Ekiti, we are shortchanged. We want our presence to be felt here and if you look at the state, we have a lot of gender-based violence issues, even last week, we still got calls for rape; It is a big issue here. “The last administration did a lot in this regard but we are worried that GBV is on the increase despite the that we have anti-GBV law in Ekiti. So we need to sensitize the people and do more of advocacy.” On her part, a member of the alumni and lawyer, Wuraoluwa Ayodele said part of the mandates of the association in 2023 is to work with other stakeholders in the state towards helping survivors of GBV. “This year as alumni, we want to see how to strengthen response groups that deal with GBV in Ekiti state. These are the people whoever that is facing GBV and will easily run to for help and support all the time; we call them first responders. “GBV is a menace that is growing in society and we must bring these people together to expand their capacity towards helping survivors and making society a safer society. GBV is on the increase everywhere, not only in Ekiti state and now that elections are coming, it will impact GBV,” she said.   READ ALSO FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   