For speaking against the extension of deadline for Naira notes swap, the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council has described the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as enemy of Nigerians. Bayo Onanuga, Director, Media and Publicity, APC Presidential Campaign Council made the declaration in a statement on Friday. Recall that while reacting to agitation for extension of the deadline, the PDP presidential candidate had said that “There should be no further postponement of the new naira regime after the expiration of the February 10 deadline.” He further argued that “the CBN and the Presidency should be steadfast. The merits of the new naira policy far outweigh the little inconvenience we are experiencing.” Onanuga in the statement claimed that the PDP presidential candidate whom he said dismissed the agony being encountered by Nigerians at banks” Little inconvenience”, was not bothered about the plights of the people he is seeking to govern. Onanuga further alleged that the PDP presidential candidate was in league with those he described as economic saboteurs, “and fifth columnists among the operators of Money Deposit Banks and oil marketers who created the current logjam to force the outcome of the February 25 Presidential election in favour of the former Vice President, our candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu  courageously pitched his tent with the poor masses who have been most negatively impacted by the antics of these evil doers. The statement read in part: ‘This poorly implemented policy has turned Nigerians to destitute because they cannot access their own money in their bank accounts. People cannot get money to give their kids to school or pay for daily needs at corner shops, fruit shops, including buying newspapers. Transactions in market places have plummeted. “The CBN governor gave insight into the nature of the problem when he revealed in Daura last Sunday that out of the N3.3 trillion in circulation, only N500 billion is in the bank vaults. So far only N1.9trillion had been received by the banks for swap. “But people are not getting the new notes to spend, thus triggering the huge anger in the land against Emefiele. “We thus find it ludicrous that a man who joined the call for an extension of the deadline last week is championing a new campaign against further extension because he feels the suffering of Nigerians will serve his own political end to become president at all cost. “Atiku said callously: “There should be no further postponement of the new naira regime after the expiration of the February 10 deadline.”  “Anchoring his objection on the wrong reason, he said further: “The CBN and the Presidency should be steadfast. The merits of the new naira policy far outweigh the little inconvenience we are experiencing.” “In passing off the suffering of our people as “Little inconvenience”, Atiku only comes across as a political leader disconnected from the Nigerian people that he is campaigning to govern. Certainly, living comfortably in Dubai for many years has drained Atiku of all empathy. “This is a man who wants to be President and does not mind even if he presides over the graves of Nigerians as long as his inordinate ambition materialises in line with the prophecy of his marabouts. “It is crystal clear to every Nigerian of conscience now that Atiku Abubakar and PDP do not mean well for our country. PDP and Atiku have become desperadoes who will wish calamity on the country as long as it makes them win an election they are destined to lose, spectacularly. “Atiku is now public enemy number one in Nigeria. He is evil personified and must be rejected at the polls on 25 February. “If Atiku Abubakar has the poor people of our country at heart like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the PDP candidate will not be advocating for adherence to a policy that has become a burden too heavy to bear for our people.’ ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 