No fewer than 6,708,451 voters collected the Permanent Voter Card (PVC) out of the 7,637,402 voters that registered in Lagos, according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Mrs Adenike Tadese, INEC’s Head of Voter Education and Publicity in Lagos State told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Lagos that the figure represented 87.8 percent. According to Tadese, 928,951, which were not collected as of the deadline, represented over 12 percent. The collection of the PVC for the 2023 general election ended on February 5. INEC had earlier extended the collection of the PVC from January 29 to February 5. INEC has fixed February 25 for the Presidential and National Assembly Elections and March 11 for the Governorship and State House Assembly Elections. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…   Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 