General Overseer of the Omega Fire Ministry, Apostle Johnson Suleiman has issued stern warnings to Nigerians ahead of the forthcoming general elections to vote encases and wait for their votes to be counted. In a tweet on his verified Twitter handle, Thursday, Apostle Suleman enjoined Nigerians to go to their polling units to vote, wait for it to be counted and capture it in record to avoid result manipulation. According to him, the 2023 general elections will be a deciding factor, warning Nigerians to stand against any form of rigging during the polls. The controversial pastor wrote; “This coming election will be a deciding factor for generations unborn. “We have never had it so terrible especially this past few weeks. “Go to your polling unit and vote.. wait for it to be counted, get it all captured and recorded.. let’s see how they can lie to us with figures.” This coming election will be a deciding factor for generations unborn..we have never had it so terrible especially this past few weeks..Go to your polling unit and vote..wait for it to be counted,get it all captured and recorded..let’s see how they can lie to us with figures. — Apst Johnson Suleman (@APOSTLESULEMAN) February 2, 2023  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…  Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president… Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted… Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna… FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened… EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 