By ’Wale Olapade His constituency and ardent promotion of African cultural and tourism content on the social media has not only given him prominence, but has also accorded him a landmark recognition by one of the most popularly and globally used social media –Facebook. The name is Jibola Oluseye Abati, the founder of Taste of Africa Vibes, Africa’s largest digital tourism platform on Facebook. His passion has earned him an edge to be one of the African voices as winner of the 2022 Facebook Accelerator Programme. “Taste of Africa Vibes was created as an outlet for those desiring to get more out of their Africa experience. We desire to provide an avenue for those seeking a “one-stop-shop” combining travel, history, culture, arts, music, entertainment and more.” According to Abati, who spoke with TravelpulseandMICE, “Winning the 2022 Facebook Accelerator Programme has really been a blessing beyond words. “I am so excited to share that my community, Taste of Africa Vibes, has been selected to participate in the 2022 Community Accelerator Programme, focused on helping community leaders advance their leadership skills and utilise Facebook tools to deepen communities’ impact. “Over the next four months, I will be joining over 135 community leaders across nine regions on our journey to execute a development plan, network with key players in the industry and learn more about how to strengthen our community. “This has shown that whatever you are doing, do it well and be consistent, not for personal gain alone, but also to an extent that it will influence others. In my own case, we are dedicated to Africa, our motherland and all we do, we do them to attract the world to Africa and Nigeria. “In our versatility and creative content dissemination through the platform we are using, we have been able to go beyond all odds to stay focused to create a significant edge in what we do and by that standard, our brand, Taste of Africa Vibes, has official partner with International Tourism Film Festival Africa 2023. “That collaboration is another win-win advantage that will open new grounds for the value chain of the industry to leverage upon. Partnership is the new trend and to make it in the tourism world, you do not need to be an island, which was the reason the International Tourism Film Festival Africa 2023 approached us for a B2B bid. “I and my South African administrator, Colleen Smerdon, have been selected to be part of the jury of a panel at the award ceremony of the ITFFA 2023, billed to take place in Cape Town, South Africa.”   ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 