Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has said the G-5 (Integrity Governors) does not stand for anybody but rather supports the principles of fairness, equity and justice. He clarified during a courtesy visit by the APC presidential candidate, Tinubu, his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima, and APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, to the Government House, Port Harcourt, on Wednesday. “I wish you good luck. I support the principle of fairness, equity and justice and that is what G-5 stands. G-5 does not stand for anybody,” he said. The Rivers governor also criticized the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for “thinking of whether to obey the Supreme Court order”. “How can you people be in government at this time, governor of a Central Bank disrespecting the Supreme Court? Where has it happened in any democracy?” He queried. He also advised the APC presidential candidate and the party’s national leadership not to invest resources in any of the party’s candidates in the State, claiming “none of them will win a single seat in the general election”. The presidential election is slated to hold Saturday, February 25, with a three-horse race between the trio of Peter Obi (LP), Bola Tinubu (APC) and Abubakar Atiku (PDP) as the leading candidates. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…   Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I dont know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022… 