Nigeria Police Force has broken its silence on the trending video of an Abuja pastor carrying an AK-47 rifle while preaching in his church on Sunday, February 12. The pastor identified as Uche Aigbe, the presiding pastor of the Abuja chapter of the House on the Rock Church, had caused a stir on social media after a photo of him carrying AK-47 rifle went viral. Some of his church members who came to his defense said he bore the arms just for illustration purposes. They said the weapon was not loaded and that no one in the church was scared. Some Nigerians kicked against it saying for whatever reasons he had, it is illegal for him to carry a weapon. Reacting, the Force’s spokesperson, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a tweet on Monday said the pastor has a case to answer, as no one is authorized to bear arms except an officer of the law. According to him, the said video has been forwarded to the Commissioner of Police for the FCT. But if its true, the pastor will have a case to answer. AK47??. It falls under prohibited Firearms in Nigeria, and no one bears it except an officer of the law, and not all of them have the right, selected sec operatives, but no individual has the right to bear it. https://t.co/Pl02LaUFII — Prince Olumuyiwa Adejobi (@Princemoye1) February 12, 2023  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Sexually transmitted infections, left untreated, can cause cancer, infertility, blindness —Obunge A  medical expert, Professor Orikomaba Obunge, says that sexually transmitted infections (STIs) remain a big problem in Nigeria and some instance when left untreated can lead to long-term irreversible outcomes like cancer, infertility and blindness…   MC Oluomo: Remove Lagos REC now, Atiku tells INEC The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos, Olusegun Agbaje, over allegations of being partisan and compromised…  Feb 25: Peter Obi is a man I’ll be proud to call president – Mr Macaroni Ahead of the forthcoming presidential election, popular Nigerian social activist and skit maker, Debo Adebayo, popularly called Mr Macaroni has said he would be proud to see the flag-bearer of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi emerge president…  INEC appeals against Osun election petition tribunal judgement on 44 grounds The Independent National Electoral Commission has appealed against the judgement of Justice T. A. Kume led Election Petition Tribunal in Osun State on 44 grounds…  Scout reveals why Arsenal failed to sign Mbappe in 2013 Arsenal failed in an attempt to sign Kylian Mbappe in 2013, a former member of the club’s scouting team has revealed…  EDITORIAL: The increasing diphtheria deaths AMID the raging protests over scarce naira notes and fuel and as political campaigns dominate the public space, Nigerians may be ignoring a dangerous killer in town: diphtheria… 