Asemokwu community in Ndokwa east local government area of Delta has been deserted for fear of reprisal attack following the killing of four military personnel in the area. The traditional ruler of the fishing community was said to have been beheaded during a communal conflict between the community and another even as the military flooded the area to maintain peace. Reports from the area indicated that residents from the community were leaving in drove to neighboring communities as the news of the attack on the military personnel filtered into the village. Saturday Tribune reports that although the military authority in the state could not confirm the casualty, unconfirmed had it that four officers were allegedly killed when their patrol vehicle was ambushed by hoodlums. A local source said the hoodlums attacked the officers, killing three of them on the spot while another officer died at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Asaba following a serious injury. “The hoodlums ambushed the army personnel and killed three officers, others were rushed to Federal Medical Center, Asaba. “One of the injured officers died in FMC. As I speak, the community is on fire, the army is everywhere now. The public relations officer of 63 brigade of the Nigerian army, Major Yahaya Nasir Kakara said that he could not comment on the development as he was out of the state. The Public Relations Officer of the state police command, DSP Bright Edafe however confirmed the crisis between two communities and the gruesome murder of the monarch. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   Sexually transmitted infections, left untreated, can cause cancer, infertility, blindness —Obunge A  medical expert, Professor Orikomaba Obunge, says that sexually transmitted infections (STIs) remain a big problem in Nigeria and some instance when left untreated can lead to long-term irreversible outcomes like cancer, infertility and blindness…  MC Oluomo: Remove Lagos REC now, Atiku tells INEC The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos, Olusegun Agbaje, over allegations of being partisan and compromised…  Feb 25: Peter Obi is a man I’ll be proud to call president – Mr Macaroni Ahead of the forthcoming presidential election, popular Nigerian social activist and skit maker, Debo Adebayo, popularly called Mr Macaroni has said he would be proud to see the flag-bearer of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi emerge president…  INEC appeals against Osun election petition tribunal judgement on 44 grounds The Independent National Electoral Commission has appealed against the judgement of Justice T. A. Kume led Election Petition Tribunal in Osun State on 44 grounds…  Scout reveals why Arsenal failed to sign Mbappe in 2013 Arsenal failed in an attempt to sign Kylian Mbappe in 2013, a former member of the club’s scouting team has revealed…  EDITORIAL: The increasing diphtheria deaths AMID the raging protests over scarce naira notes and fuel and as political campaigns dominate the public space, Nigerians may be ignoring a dangerous killer in town: diphtheria… 