It was a tragic end for a Mozambican pastor, Francisco Barajah, who reportedly died after fasting for 40 days, in an attempt to replicate what the Biblical Jesus Christ did. He died while being treated at hospital in Beira where he was evacuated in critical condition, according to BBC report. The founder of the Santa Trindade Evangelical Church in the central province of Manica, was confirmed dead on Wednesday. TRIBUNE ONLINE gathered the clergyman had lost a lot of weight to a point where he could not stand up, bathe or walk after 25 days of fasting. Days later, at the insistence of relatives and believers, he was taken to a hospital but attempts to get him back to life were unsuccessful. Church members and his neighbours have been unsurprised at the turn of events, due to his extreme weight loss and disfigured body frame prior to his death. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…   Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I dont know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022… 