Nigerian old-generation bank, First Bank of Nigeria Plc has said it will only open its branches where it is safe to do so following the naira crunch saga rampaging the country. Banks have been under pressure since the Central Bank of Nigeria began the move to withdraw N1,000, N500 and N200 old notes from circulation. Recall the apex bank had fixed Friday, February 10 as the deadline for the aforementioned old notes. Cash scarcity has hit most banks as customers spend time at ATMs without being able to withdraw their money leading to pockets of protests in some sections of the country. Reacting, First Bank, in a press release signed Thursday, said it may temporarily shut doors to customers following the rising security challenges in the country. “We know these are challenging times and our commitment to support does not waver. We will keep our doors open and have greatly increased capacity across all our electronic platforms. “However, should we observe skirmishes around certain locations, we may have to temporarily shut our doors as we also take the safety and welfare of our staff seriously. “We believe that we are in this together and here to find and provide solutions. Unfortunately, those attacking bank branches only make it more difficult for us to do our part in resolving the challenge we collectively face,” the statement read.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   Sexually transmitted infections, left untreated, can cause cancer, infertility, blindness —Obunge A  medical expert, Professor Orikomaba Obunge, says that sexually transmitted infections (STIs) remain a big problem in Nigeria and some instance when left untreated can lead to long-term irreversible outcomes like cancer, infertility and blindness…  MC Oluomo: Remove Lagos REC now, Atiku tells INEC The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos, Olusegun Agbaje, over allegations of being partisan and compromised…  Feb 25: Peter Obi is a man I’ll be proud to call president – Mr Macaroni Ahead of the forthcoming presidential election, popular Nigerian social activist and skit maker, Debo Adebayo, popularly called Mr Macaroni has said he would be proud to see the flag-bearer of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi emerge president…  INEC appeals against Osun election petition tribunal judgement on 44 grounds The Independent National Electoral Commission has appealed against the judgement of Justice T. A. Kume led Election Petition Tribunal in Osun State on 44 grounds…  Scout reveals why Arsenal failed to sign Mbappe in 2013 Arsenal failed in an attempt to sign Kylian Mbappe in 2013, a former member of the club’s scouting team has revealed…  EDITORIAL: The increasing diphtheria deaths AMID the raging protests over scarce naira notes and fuel and as political campaigns dominate the public space, Nigerians may be ignoring a dangerous killer in town: diphtheria… 