Chief Whip of the House of Senate and former Governor of Abia, Orji Kalu on Tuesday, said there is nothing like Igbo presidency as widely propagated by political analysts. This comes on the heels of calls by some political elites to support Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi, who they believe will unite Nigeria since he is from Igbo extraction (the only region that has not produced Nigeria’s president since transition to democracy). According to him, “there can only be a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction” adding that he is only loyal to his party All Progressives Congress (APC). This was his submission while featuring on Arise TV’s morning show, which was monitored by TRIBUNE ONLINE. The former Abia governor also faulted claims of in-fighting in the ruling party following the Naira redesign policy. Earlier, the Chief Whip in an exclusive interview with Channels Television on Monday, February 20, lamented the scarcity of the naira owing to the currency redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He claims his family could not get enough money to cook recently. “You can see the policy is right but I don’t keep money in my house. I am suffering. “The other day, my house manager told my wife in Abuja that we have no money to cook food. My wife was virtually roaming around and we feed over 250 people every day. It is a problem to me and to everybody,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…  Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I don’t know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022… 