Reactions have started trailing the Supreme Court’s decision to temporarily halt the move by the Federal Government to ban the use of the old naira notes from February 10, 2023. TRIBUNE ONLINE earlier reported a seven-member panel led by Justice John Okoro, stopped the move of the federal government in a ruling in an exparte application brought by three northern states of Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara. Delivering ruling in the motion, Okoro, held that after careful consideration of the motion exparte, this application is granted as prayed. “An order of Interim Injunction restraining the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) or the commercial banks from suspending or determining or ending on February 10, the time frame with which the now older version of the 200, 500 and 1,000 denomination of the naira may no longer be legal tender pending the hearing and determination of their motion on notice for interlocutory injunction.” the court ruled. Nigerians have since taken to Twitter to react to the development faulting the judgment. Others believed is “a win for democracy”. Below are some reactions gathered by Tribune: Why all this APC governors taking this money issue very serious. They never take security and educational matters serious like this . — Papi (@Classic84073745) February 8, 2023  Waste of time. the Supreme Court doesn't make laws, hence they cannot stop this action. — Bro. Nero (@OgheneroInana) February 8, 2023  Does this mean the Supreme Court Judges are now enemies of the people? — Andy Gaucher (@andygaucher) February 8, 2023  We Won! A Win For Democracy ! pic.twitter.com/gLkUgVOGoG — 36Kinniun Tinubu Media Commando    (@36Kinniun) February 8, 2023  Clearly President Buhari is not the strongest person in APC. Why are they bent on stopping this? Why are they not compelling CBN to make the new notes more available instead? — Danidon (@Danidon__) February 8, 2023  The supreme court abi supreme ice cream are pulling at strings. I repeat, that thing won't hold — Kelly (@Kelly_Olumide) February 8, 2023   Government doesn't have option than to obey the supreme Court judgement to avoid anarchy.Though, the policy is good but it is ill-timed and the implementation has political undertones. — SamAduloju (@Samfem9) February 8, 2023  Buhari and CBN should obey the order of the Supreme Court to deepen democracy in Nigeria — Olawale_Hassan (@Olawale_Hassan) February 8, 2023  The Supreme Court hasn’t delivered a final judgment yet, it gave an interlocutory injunction until the determination of the Final Suit — Hov (@Ben_hov) February 8, 2023  Walai…, The Supreme Court has always been compromised but we never saw it this clear. The Judiciary has also failed us. — A. Kelvin (@AfeKelvin) February 8, 2023  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…  Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 