The leader of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has predicted the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, will be the next president of Nigeria. The cleric revealed God has given Atiku an assignment to rule Nigeria for just one term if he eventually wins. n a statement by his Media Aide, Oluwatosin Osho, Ayodele listed some of the assignments to include restructuring, fixing the education sector, reducing the price of petrol, and reviving the economy. He, however, warned Atiku against neglecting all God-given policies if he doesn’t want to see the wrath of God. Primate Ayodele who claimed his statement is not to campaign for the PDP flag-bearer, however, said if the latter doesn’t win, Nigerians will suffer more than they have in the past administrations. His words; “Among these three candidates, Atiku has been given an assignment from God to fix the nation within four years. If God gives Atiku victory in this election, he is to use only four years for this special assignment. “If he wins and refuses to do the will of God for the people, he will see the wrath of God. “He will not complete his term because God’s anger will be placed on him. His assignment is to form an all-inclusive government, take care of security within six months, restructure before his term ends, reduce petroleum prices, fix the education sector, and revive the economy. “He must not start selling Nigeria’s property to his friends and if he does, he will see God’s anger. If God helps him to get there and he neglects all these policies, God’s wrath will be kindled against him. “I am not saying Atiku will win the election, it’s only the people’s vote that can determine that but I am only saying what God sent me to say to Nigerians; Atiku has an assignment placed into his hands by God to fix the nation within four years. “It’s your choice to vote for him or not but if he doesn’t emerge, the person that wins will only add to the yoke of Nigerians as it is written in 1king 12vs14. The people will suffer more than they have ever suffered in the past administrations.”  Primate Ayodele urged Atiku not to spend beyond four years, adding that God has made him the answer to Nigeria’s present crisis and that if Nigerians reject him, many more troubles will be experienced. “Atiku, the Lord said I should tell you that if you win, you must not spend beyond four years or else you will see the anger of God. You must do an all-inclusive government, restructuring, security, health and everything to put Nigeria in order. If you don’t do these, God will be angry with you,” he added. READ ALSO FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  