The National Council of State on Friday threw its weight behind the Federal government’s naira redesign policy with a call on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure an adequate supply of cash. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, revealed this while briefing correspondents at the end of the council meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said it is part of the two major resolutions reached by the council, the other being that the country is on course for the conduct of the general elections. He said: “The two major resolutions that were driven arising from the deliberation of are one: that we are on course as far as election is concerned, and we are happy with the level of preparation by INEC and the institutions. “Two, relating to the Naira redesign policy, the policy stands but then the council agreed that there is a need for aggressive action on the part of the CBN as it relates to the implementation of the policy by way of ensuring adequate provision being made with particular regard to the supply of the Naira in the system.” More details to come later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer. N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday expressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May…  How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts THE Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has prohibited cash withdrawals from accounts belonging to the federal, state and local governments, as well as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)… Tears As Boundary Adjustment Reawakens Old Hostilities Between Gombe, Adamawa States The recent communal clash between the Waja and Lunguda communities of Gombe and Adamawa states has reawakened bad blood over boundary adjustment. The Northern Bureau Chief, MUHAMMAD SABIU… EDITORIAL: Legacy: Buhari’s Plea To Nigerians In his Christmas message last month, President Muhammadu Buhari pleaded with Nigerians of voting age to be wary of candidates who could not move Nigeria forward. Noting that the joyous season of the birth of Jesus Christ coincided with the period of campaigns that would usher in a new administration in the country…  