By Nurudeen Alimi The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Iyorchia Ayu has congratulated the former member of the Federal House of Representatives, representing Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Iwajowa and Kajola, Hon. Abiodun Olasupo on his nomination by the National Executive Committee (NEC) as a member of the party’s Presidential Campaign Council (PCC). Ayu in a letter addressed to Olasupo noted that the appointment was as a result of the support from the leadership of the party and supporters of the party. He noted that the party would be glad if the former lawmaker’s contributions to the coming Presidential election lead to success for the party. “We wish to inform you that the National Executive Council (NEC) of our Great Party at its 97th Meeting, approved your nomination as Member of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council for the 2023 General Elections. “Your appointment underscores the broad support you enjoy among the leadership of our Party and all our teeming supporters. “It is hoped, therefore, that your contribution to the overall success of the assignment of the council will justify the confidence reposed in you by the leadership of our Great Party,” the letter said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer. N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say  NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday ex-pressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts THE Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has prohibited cash withdrawals from accounts belonging to the federal, states and local governments, as well as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)…  