President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged Nigeria’s readiness to provide full support in any way possible to Turkey and Syria over the deadly earthquake that occurred in parts of the countries. According to a statement issued on Monday by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity), the President extended heartfelt commiserations to the governments and people of Turkey and Syria, and those who lost family and friends in the devastating earthquake in the southern Turkish city of Gaziantep. The President wished those injured a speedy recovery and assures that the prayers and thoughts of Nigerians are with the many affected by this severe disaster and its aftershocks. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer. N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday expressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May… How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts  THE Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has prohibited cash withdrawals from accounts belonging to the federal, state and local governments, as well as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)… Tears As Boundary Adjustment Reawakens Old Hostilities Between Gombe, Adamawa States The recent communal clash between the Waja and Lunguda communities of Gombe and Adamawa states has reawakened bad blood over boundary adjustment. The Northern Bureau Chief, MUHAMMAD SABIU… EDITORIAL: Legacy: Buhari’s Plea To Nigerians In his Christmas message last month, President Muhammadu Buhari pleaded with Nigerians of voting age to be wary of candidates who could not move Nigeria forward. Noting that the joyous season of the birth of Jesus Christ coincided with the period of campaigns that would usher in a new administration in the country…  