The House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee investigating the new currency policy initiated by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) will on Thursday meet with Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), National Security Adviser (NSA) to the President and Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr Zainab Ahmed. The meeting with the stakeholders which was scheduled to start by 3 pm, was called with a view to addressing the lingering concerns over the scarcity of the newly redesigned currencies. It was however uncertain whether the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele was invited to the stakeholders’ meeting, as at the time of filing this report. Recall that the Speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila had during an interactive session with leaders of various Ethnic Groups during a meeting held in Lagos State, assured Nigerians of the House resolve to monitor the activities of the apex bank. He also revealed that the House will not hesitate to reconvene before the commencement if the prevailing situation persists. The Ad-hoc Committee’s resolve to convene the stakeholders’ meeting was reached after a brief meeting held at the instance of the House Leader, Hon. Alhassan Ado-Doguwa held at the National Assembly on Wednesday. Sequel to the Supreme Court ruling, series of protest took place in major cities across the country, as Nigerians including youths and various interest groups staged protests over the excruciating challenges posed by the scarcity of the newly redesigned new naira notes. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…   Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 