The Atiku faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers has rejected the after-thought decision of Rivers State Governor Wike to grant the faction use of the Aokiye Amesiamaka Stadium for the party’s Presidential Campaign. The faction came out Wednesday afternoon to say it was no longer interested in using the stadium at Igwuruta-Ali after the Governor, the previous day announced that he had listened to advice from several quarters of the state to reapproved the use of the stadium for Atiku’s Presidential campaign planned for the venue, February 11. Wike had while addressing the party’s governorship campaign rally at Ogu in Ogu/Bolo local government area of the state on Tuesday, announced reapproval for the PDP Presidential Campaign Council to use the stadium. He had about two weeks ago through the state the Commissioner for Sports, Barr. Christopher Green, wrote to the Presidential Campaign Council, revoking an earlier approval for the use of the venue. But, Dr. Leloonu Nwibubasa, spokesperson of the PDP Campaign Council in Rivers State, speaking in a radio programme in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, said the council could take Governor Wike by his words. “We are aware that yesterday he announced that the stadium has been restored and that he has rescinded his decision. But let me state this very clearly, the Presidential Campaign Council of Atiku Abubakar is not interested in Governor Wike’s ‘greek gift,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…   Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 