In his desperate move to address the issue of fuel scarcity that has rocked Osun, the State Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke has announced the composition of a Special Monitoring Team to look into the deepening distribution and pricing challenges. The governor, in a statement by his spokesperson, Mallam Olawale Rasheed in Osogbo, on Friday put in place a Special Monitoring team to be headed by the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Hon Kazeem Akinleye, with members drawn from Police, DSS, Army, IPMAN, NLC, TDU, etc to commence the monitoring of distribution of PMS from point of delivery by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to various discharge outlets in Osun State. The Governor further urged the Monitoring Team to liaise with the major marketers for collaboration with the independent marketers to ensure that products are circulated across the State. While expressing unhappiness about the hardship facing people of the state, Governor Adeleke assured that the state government will support federal agencies and private sector operators to address the issues behind fuel scarcity in the State. “We will look into this fuel scarcity. We can’t fold our arms with our people facing so much hardship,” Adeleke assured. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…  Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President  After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 