A governorship aspirant under the All Progressives Congress APC in Taraba, Chief David Sabo Kente has insisted that the chances of winning the Governorship election in the state were brighter than any other political party. Kente made the declaration on Thursday while reacting to the supreme court judgement which nullified the party primary held in the state. Chief Shuaibu Ataka, Secretary of the David Kente Governorship Campaign Organisation while briefing newsmen in Jalingo on behalf of Chief Kente, commended the supreme court justices for a sound judgement. He said the judgement would serve as a lesson to politicians who felt the society should continue with its old draconian ways. The guber aspirant also expressed optimism that he would win the ticket of the party as he was ever ready to go into a fresh primary election. He further called on the APC supporters in the state to remain calm and wait for the decision of the party’s national headquarters. Nigerian Tribune recalls that a five-man justice of the Supreme Court on Wednesday nullified the emergence of Sen. Emmanuel Bwacha on the ground that there was no party primary election held in the state and ordered that a fresh primary be conducted within 12 days. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Kano Rally Proves Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer — Atiku The inability of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to deliver an inspiring speech to the crowd of supporters that had gathered to hear him speak during Wednesday’s rally in Kano shows that he has got nothing to offer… N77trn Debt: Booby Traps For Incoming Govt, Afenifere, Experts, Others Say NOTABLE organisations and financial experts on Thursday expressed shock over the revelation by the Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, that Nigeria’s debt might rise to N77 trillion at the expiration of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in May…  How Prince William Knocked Me To The Floor Over Argument On Meghan — Prince Harry BRITAIN’S Prince Harry has, in a much-awaited memoir which went on sales days early in Spain on Thursday, said his older brother and heir to the throne, Prince William, knocked him to the floor during a 2019 argument over his American wife, Meghan… NFIU Bans Cash Withdrawals From Government Accounts THE Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has prohibited cash withdrawals from accounts belonging to the federal, state and local governments, as well as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)… Tears As Boundary Adjustment Reawakens Old Hostilities Between Gombe, Adamawa States The recent communal clash between the Waja and Lunguda communities of Gombe and Adamawa states has reawakened bad blood over boundary adjustment. The Northern Bureau Chief, MUHAMMAD SABIU… EDITORIAL: Legacy: Buhari’s Plea To Nigerians In his Christmas message last month, President Muhammadu Buhari pleaded with Nigerians of voting age to be wary of candidates who could not move Nigeria forward. Noting that the joyous season of the birth of Jesus Christ coincided with the period of campaigns that would usher in a new administration in the country…  