A group, Ogun Political Watch, has said that every strategy being deployed by the former governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, to work against the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun will fail. The group urged Amosun to desist from spinning falsehoods against Abiodun. The group made this declaration in a statement released by its secretary, Alhaji Wahab Adeyemi, in Abeokuta on Wednesday. Reacting to the sundry allegations levelled against Governor Abiodun by the senator during the governorship campaign of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the state on Wednesday, the group described Amosun as a disgruntled and desperate politician who could not get over his failure to install a stooge at Oke Mosan as governor in 2019 and secure a return ticket to the Senate during the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries last year. It noted that having failed woefully to achieve his inordinate ambition, the senator pitched his tent with a moribund political party and an extremely weak candidate, adding that they will both fail woefully in the coming election. It said: “Curiously, the same Biyi Otegbeye that Amosun is supporting now was the APC house of Reps candidate in his constituency in 2019 and Amosun fought tooth and nail to defeat his ambition. “Now, because the guy has decided to share the patrimony of Ogun State with him, he has decided to support him, but they will both fail woefully.” Describing Senator Amosun’s allegation that Governor Abiodun had spent N3bn on rehabilitating the model schools he (Amosun) built with N830 million as patently laughable, the group urged the Ogun Central senator to get over his bitterness and anger, saying that officials of the Abiodun government had already shown that the figures expended on the said schools was less than 5 percent of the figure he (Amosun) quoted. It said: “Amosun is bandying about unrealistic figures out of his desperate ambition to rubbish Governor Abiodun, who has clearly surpassed his eight-year achievements in just four years.. “Was Amosun really talking about the so-called model schools that failed structural integrity test and could not house a single student? “The Abiodun administration had to convert those of them that were fairly habitable to isolation centres during the COVID-19 crisis.  ” It is unconscionable for an APC senator to be repeating the anti-party activities he carried out to his utter shame in 2019, circulating bogus figures out of pure mischief, and with the intention to install the candidate of another political party in office while remaining in APC as a senator. “We invite the APC leadership to sanction Amosun while he and his ADC stooge go into political oblivion,” the statement read. 