 It was dramatic moment as two Big Brother Titans housemates, Khosi and Jenni O broke one of Biggie’s rules after engaging in a physical altercation last night. The fight, which caused all the housemates to interfere, started with verbal exchange between the duo. In the video clip obtained by TRIBUNE ONLINE, Khosi was seen trying to get away from some housemates holding her back and get a piece of Jenni O. Jenni O, on the other hand, was also ready to pounce on Khosi as she also struggled to get to her. It was a night of commotion in the Biggie house as the housemates lost their temper. The cause of the fight could not be ascertained at the time of filing this report. Watch video below:  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   PDP, APC Fight Over Buhari’s Visit To Kano THE leading political parties in Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), traded blames, on Monday over the attack on the convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Kano…  Presidential Candidates Will Tell Workers Their Plans For Fuel Subsidy —NLC President After 35 years in various leadership positions in trade union service, the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, will finish his eight-year tenure on February 8, 2023, as the Congress elects a new president that will pilot its affairs. As part of his preparation to hand over NLC leadership to the next president…  Ojuelegba Tragedy: Sanwo-Olu Orders Speed Trial Of Truck Owner, Driver Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has directed the police to speed up their investigation of the container accident, which occurred on Sunday at Ojuelegba area of the state, killing nine people, saying that the driver of the truck and the owner, who were currently in police custody, must be prosecuted…  Real Madrid, Barcelona set to light up Copa del Rey in semifinal clash Real Madrid will get a chance for revenge against Barcelona when the Spanish teams meet in the Copa del Rey semifinals. The rivals were paired together in Monday’s draw, which also set up a semifinal match between Athletic Bilbao and Osasuna…  FLAT OUT: Tinubu And The Ways Of The Wasp There are two insects in Yoruba cosmology that are similar. But they are very distinct. One is oyin (bee). The other is agbon (wasp). Both equally sting in their unique ways. Oyin, for instance, is less aggressive and stings only when it is threatened…  EDITORIAL: Police Invasion Of UNIZIK Private Hostel LAST week, there was apprehension and outrage among the students’ community of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, as policemen attached to the Special Anti-Cult Unit of the Anambra State Police Command reportedly broke into Prince Godwin Lodge… 