It was a tragic Thursday morning as a yet-to-be-identified traveller was confirmed dead in multiple crashes on Kara Bridge outward the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The situation, TRIBUNE ONLINE gathered caused intense traffic along the axis coupled with the repair works ongoing on the narrowed road, with scores of motorists struggling to find their way out of Lagos. About seven vehicles including a container-laden truck were involved in the multiple accidents. The FRSC Sector Commander in Ogun State, Ahmed Umar, told newsment that a traffic hawker was killed in the unfortunate accidents, adding that emergency responders are still rescuing those injured. Umar attributed the accidents to brakes failure by the truck whose driver rammed into the vehicles in front of him from behind. According to Channels Television report, rescue efforts are ongoing at the scene of the accidents at press time. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Sexually transmitted infections, left untreated, can cause cancer, infertility, blindness —Obunge A  medical expert, Professor Orikomaba Obunge, says that sexually transmitted infections (STIs) remain a big problem in Nigeria and some instance when left untreated can lead to long-term irreversible outcomes like cancer, infertility and blindness…   MC Oluomo: Remove Lagos REC now, Atiku tells INEC The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remove the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos, Olusegun Agbaje, over allegations of being partisan and compromised…  Feb 25: Peter Obi is a man I’ll be proud to call president – Mr Macaroni Ahead of the forthcoming presidential election, popular Nigerian social activist and skit maker, Debo Adebayo, popularly called Mr Macaroni has said he would be proud to see the flag-bearer of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi emerge president…  INEC appeals against Osun election petition tribunal judgement on 44 grounds The Independent National Electoral Commission has appealed against the judgement of Justice T. A. Kume led Election Petition Tribunal in Osun State on 44 grounds…  Scout reveals why Arsenal failed to sign Mbappe in 2013 Arsenal failed in an attempt to sign Kylian Mbappe in 2013, a former member of the club’s scouting team has revealed…  EDITORIAL: The increasing diphtheria deaths AMID the raging protests over scarce naira notes and fuel and as political campaigns dominate the public space, Nigerians may be ignoring a dangerous killer in town: diphtheria… 