The Naira on Wednesday exchanged at N461.50 to the dollar at the Investors and Exporters window, despite the cash crunch ravaging the country. Compared with the N461.67 it was exchanged on Tuesday, the figure represented an appreciation by 0.04 percent. The open indicative rate closed at N461.25 to the dollar on Wednesday. An exchange rate of N462.02 to the dollar was the highest rate recorded within the day’s trading before it settled at N461.50. The Naira sold for as low as N446 to the dollar within the day’s trading. A total of 89.54 million dollars was traded at the official Investors and Exporters window on Wednesday. Nigerians have been experiencing difficulties in recent times with many counting their losses following the challenges posed by Naira redesign policy. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…   Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I dont know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022…  