By ’Wale Olapade Following the progress of the first phase of the sensitisation project organised by the Oyo State Tourism Board in collaboration with Hoteliers’ Association of Oyo State, under the Oyo State Tourism and Hospitality Development Project, the duo are planning the phase 2 in March 2023. In a release made available to TravelpulseandMICE, the chairman, Oyo State Tourism Board, Elder Adejumobi Adebowale and President of Hoteliers’ Association of Oyo State, Chief Ayodele Ogundele, announced that the Phase 2 of the sensitization project will target the 11 Local Governments Areas in Ibadan. The statement read, “The sensitisation move is to stimulate the consciousness of the owners of hotel, guest house, service apartments, inns, taverns, event centres, eateries, restaurant owners, lounges, night clubs and others on the dangers of drug use, insecurity, cybercrime, human trafficking and kidnapping. “The success of the first phase, which took place from November 14 to 16, 2022 and covered Iseyin and Saki Zones, Ogbomoso and Oyo Zones and Ibarapa Zone, is a factor in preparing for the second one. “The collaborators said the benefits of joining the Hoteliers’ Association of Oyo State and the mandatory registration of their hospitality businesses with the Oyo State Tourism Board will bring forth a new trend in the sector ecosystem. “This Oyo State Hoteliers’ President, Chief Ayodele Ogundele, described the project as a good initiative, being the first time the Tourism Board is taking the state to the next level, in the last 40 years or more.” According to the release, the phase 2 of the sensitisation project will be in conjunction with other government parastatals among which are the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Nigerian Immigration Services (NIS) and the State Intelligence Bureau (SIB). Others are the Department of State Services (DSS), Family Affairs Consultancy Services and many others, set to put structures in place to gather more data and also regulate the hospitality and tourism industry in Oyo State. The duo also underscored that the Oyo State Tourism and Hospitality Project is under the Oyo State Tourism Board, which is saddled with the responsibility of creating diverse and development initiatives and strategies in the tourism and hospitality sector of Oyo State. According to the release, the mandate is to enhance excellent service delivery across various hospitality establishments in the state, thereby boosting the state’s tourism drive and focusing such initiative to achieving the United Nations Sustainable development goals by 2030.   ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 