The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Thaddeus Attah of the Labour Party (LP) as winner of the Eti-Osa Federal Constituency seat in the House of Representatives. Prof Funmilayo Odukoya, who is the INEC Returning Officer, made the declaration on Sunday at the Collation Centre, Lagos State Model Nursery and Primary School, Marwa, Lekki 1. Attah won with 24,075 votes, beating his counterparts, Mr Olubankole Wellington (Banky W) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who had 18,666 votes, and Mr Babajide Obanikoro of the APC, who had 16, 901 votes. “That Thaddeus Attah of LP, having satisfied the requirement of the law is hereby declared winner and is returned elected; signed by me. Thank you so much,“ Odukoya said. She said that other candidates received the following votes: Mr Oladehin Olufemi, African Democratic Congress, 1,422 votes; Mr Azeez Kabirat of New Nigeria Peoples Party, 414 votes, and Mr Olasunkanmi Ololade, Social Democratic Party, 207 votes. Earlier, there was pandemonium between the party agents and INEC officers over the authenticity of the result, even before it was declared by the presiding officer. The agents including APC and PDP refused to accept the announcement of results unless their complaints were addressed. Speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), the PDP agent, Mr Aderemi Adeshina, claimed that some voters were disenfranchised in some polling units in the LGA. Adeshina also claimed that results recorded in some units after the elections were not transmitted through the BVAS machine. “We will not accept the result until another election takes place in all the wards where we were disenfranchised,“ he said. NAN reports that security agents including the police and army were on ground to ensure and maintain safety and peace.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  G-5 not dead, sets for action ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has explained that the G-5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have withdrawn from talking regularly in public to embark on strategic actions in silence in order to achieve set goals…  Govs, ministers to attend APC presidential rally in Ibadan Thursday Governors and ministers from the South-West of Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, and Ekiti, including the immediate past governor of Osun State, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola, will grace the rescheduled presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress…  Implementation of Naira policy political ― Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has faulted the implementation of the Naira swap policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as shoddy and political…  Naira litigation: Fireworks as Supreme Court entertains FG’s objection today The Supreme Court of Nigeria will today resume hearing in the suit brought by three states, against the federal government over the controversial currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria…  ‘I don’t know’, Guardiola offers update on Haaland’s availability for crunch Arsenal tie Pep Guardiola is unsure if Erling Haaland will be available for Manchester City’s huge Premier League showdown with title rivals Arsenal…  EDITORIAL: The Ogun wife immolator RECENTLY, the Ogun State police command confirmed the arrest of a 46-year-old man, Azeez Hassan, who set his wife, Olayinka Hassan, on fire for failing to cook for him. The suspect, who had been on the run since October 22, 2022… 